# 2024 OIAI Audit Report on the Lebanon Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/1961/file/2024-oiai-lebanon-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/1961/file/2024-oiai-lebanon-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

0  Report on the Internal Audit of the  Lebanon Country Office  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  MAY 2024  Report 2024/05

CONTENTS  1  Executive Summary ...................................................................................................... 2  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context   ........................................................................................................................... 5  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach ...................................................................... 7  Observations and Management Action Plan .............................................................. 8  1.   Findings of HACT assurance activities  2.   Cash assistance to beneficiaries  3.   Payment of teachers’ salaries and operating expenses of schools  4.   Programme visits and supply end user monitoring  5.   Programme reporting tools and databases  6.   Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse  7.   Screening of consultants and contractors  Appendix   ...................................................................................................................... 17  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  2  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Lebanon Country  Office, covering the period from January 2022 to August 2023.   The audit was conducted in  September 2023 in accordance with the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the  Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The overarching objective of the audit was to assess  the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes  across a selection of significant risk areas of the Lebanon Country Office including   cash transfers  to and management of implementing partners, protection from sexual exploitation and abuse  (PSEA), cash assistance to beneficiaries, and programme supplies. The descriptions of the  specific risks evaluated are provided in the Audit Objective, Scope, and Approach Section of this  report.  The UNICEF Lebanon Country Office (LCO) operates in the context of a socioeconomic crisis  characterized by the devaluation of the Lebanese Pound (LBP), high public debt, challenges in  the provision of social services and increasing poverty amongst the most vulnerable. In addition,  the LCO hosts the largest number of refugees per capita in the world (including Palestinians and  Syrians) which, along with the financial crisis, drove the decision for the direct implementation of  cash assistance to beneficiaries. Further, the LCO transfers cash almost exclusively to civil  society organizations (CSOs) for the implementation of planned programme activities. During the  audit period, cash transfers to CSOs was the largest programme expense at 34 per cent, followed  by cash assistance to beneficiaries at 28 per cent, and programme supplies at 25 per cent. The  audit, therefore, was structured around evaluating the management of risks to the objectives of  these key programme inputs.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI  concluded that the assessed governance, risk  management, or control processes were partially  satisfactory, improvement needed, meaning that  the assessed governance, risk management or  control processes were generally adequate and  functioning   but   needed   improvement.   The  weaknesses   or   deficiencies   identified   were  unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area,  activity, or process.  Summary of Observations   and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted several areas where UNICEF Lebanon’s controls were adequate and functioned well.  For example, the LCO worked with the UNICEF Middle East and North Africa Regional Office  (MENARO) and/or UNICEF headquarters to strengthen internal controls like cash assistance to  beneficiaries, supply chain management, and the government managed warehouse. To ensure  the continuation of essential services for children, UNICEF Lebanon made payments to partners  and vendors in US dollars (USD) as the LBP continued to deteriorate and withdrawal of funds  from banks was restricted.  The audit team made   observations   related to the management of the key risks evaluated. In  particular, OIAI noted:     Findings from HACT assurance activities : The LCO did not always appropriately act on the  financial findings from its Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT) assurance  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory, Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

3  activities, elevating the risk of financial losses that could result from fraud, waste and abuse  of funds entrusted to partners. Specifically, the LCO did not take any of the actions they were  expected to take under HACT framework in respect of approximately US$1.6 million of the  US$2 million financial findings despite concerns being raised by an audit firm who questioned  the eligibility of the US$1.6 million but noted that it was unable to quantify the actual financial  losses due to scope limitation, passage of time and lack of documentation.     Cash assistance to beneficiaries : There is a need to strengthen the management of risks  related   to   payments   under   cash   assistance   programmes   and   grievance   redressal  mechanisms to increase their usefulness and ultimately help the LCO appropriately address  the needs of the target population. UNICEF Lebanon did not always use lessons learned from  previous payments to strengthen the assessment and management of risks related to the  cash assistance programmes.     Payment of teachers’ salaries and operating expenses of schools:   There is a need to  enhance controls around payment of salaries to teachers and to schools for operating  expenses, as ghost workers or padded payrolls reduce the valuable resources meant for the  most vulnerable. Whilst the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE) has a system  that requires teachers to record the actual hours that they work, the LCO did not have a  process in place to confirm whether the teachers on the list provided by MEHE and used for  payment of their salaries did indeed exist.  The table below summarizes the key actions agreed to by management to address the residual  risks identified, and the ratings of those risks and observations with respect to the assessed  governance, risk management and control processes. (See the   definitions of the observation  ratings   in the Appendix.)  OBSERVATION   RATING  Category of  Process   Area or Operation and Key Action   Rating  Governance  Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (Observation 7) :   The  country   office   agrees   to   enhance   the   management   of   PSEA   risks   by  improving SEA monitoring, maintaining an up-to-date list of NGOs who have  been   PSEA   assessed,   and   providing   training   and   support   to   high-risk  vendors and contractors.  Medium  Control  processes  Findings from HACT assurance activities (Observation 1):   The country  office will put in place appropriate measures to ensure suitable actions are  consistently taken in respect of financial findings from HACT assurance  activities,   and   that   potential   conflicts   of   interest   and   single   vendor  dependency risks are assessed and appropriately addressed in engaging  HACT-related assurance providers.  Medium  Cash assistance to beneficiaries (Observation 2) : The country office  agrees to mitigate risks to the effective implementation of humanitarian cash  programmes by adapting cash to beneficiary processes based on lessons  learned,   regarding   incorrect   recipient   identification   and/or   trends   from  complaints,   noted   from   prior   payment   tranches;   and   identify   and  appropriately address the causes of low awareness and utilization of existing  grievance redressal mechanisms.  Medium

4  Payment of teachers’ and operating expenses of schools (Observation  3) : The country office agrees to enhance controls around the payment of  salaries to teachers and for operating expenses to schools by specifically  requiring third-party monitors to confirm the existence of personnel, accuracy  of personnel lists and a review of the MEHE’s recruitment processes. Reports  on the results of such verifications and reviews should be used to inform the  type   and   depth   of   assurance   and   financial   capacity   building   activities  performed by the country office.  Medium  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk  management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit.  The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk  management and control processes.

CONTEXT  5  In 2022, Lebanon’s population was approximately 5.5 million, a third of which were children.  Although, the registration of Syrian refugees was suspended by the government in 2015, the  estimated number of Syrian refugees at the time was around 1.5 million, 90 per cent of whom  were living in extreme poverty   1   . The availability and quality of social services in Lebanon  deteriorated significantly in 2023, with international support for recovery contingent on the country  implementing key structural reforms 2 . Children living in Lebanon find themselves at a precarious  juncture and heavily impacted by the socioeconomic crisis and political instability, all compounded  by the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the devastating explosion at the Port of  Beirut in 2020.  Economic   contraction   has   led   to   a  marked decline in disposable income,  and Lebanon’s reclassification, by the  World Bank, from upper middle-income  status   to   a   lower-middle   income  country, in July 2022 .  From   October   2019,   Lebanese  commercial banks began to unilaterally  impose   capital   controls   by   setting  withdrawal   and   transfer   limits on   all  bank   accounts.   In   early   2022,   the  banks   created   fresh   LBP   accounts ,  which could be used to transfer LBP  funds locally among banks .   However,  there was no formal clearing system for  this, and UNICEF Lebanon was unable  to transfer LBP to suppliers for the payment of VAT related to invoices, except by issuing  withdrawal letters in cash from a UNICEF   fresh LBP account . From September 2021 until  February 2023, the payments of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and fuel to partners  were processed and paid in LBP. As of February 2023, the LCO shifted to processing and paying  this and all payments in USD including to implementing partners. To bring the LBP exchange rate  closer to the rate in the market, as of 1 November 2022, the United Nations Operational Rates of  Exchange (UNORE) source for Lebanon was changed to the Sayrafa Rate – the exchange rate  published on Sayrafa, the Lebanese Central Bank's platform.  The country programme document (CPD) 2023-2025 was structured around six main programme  areas: survive and thrive; learning and skills; child protection; social policy; water, sanitation, and  hygiene (WASH); and adolescents and youth. The CPD budget of US$769 million was to be  funded by Regular Resources (RR) of US$2.6 million and Other Resources (OR) of US$766.4  million. As part of the Palestinian Area Programme Document (APD), in 2022, the LCO received  a further US$1.4 million to serve approximately 210,000 Palestine refugees in Lebanon.  The main categories of expenditure during the period January 2022 to July 2023 are shown in  diagram 1 below. A total of US$115.6 million was expensed as cash transfers to CSOs and  government; cash assistance to beneficiaries was approximately US$108.7 million; and service  1 Sourced from   https://www.unhcr.org/countries/lebanon   as of October 2023.  2   Sourced from   IMF Lebanon Staff Report 2023

6  contracts are valued at US$119.4 million including construction contracts worth approximately  US$87 million. The risk areas covered in the audit include all four key expenditure categories.  Programme-related expenses accounted for 82 per cent of total expenses in the period. Diagram  2 below shows that cash transfers to CSOs was the largest programme expense at 34 per cent,  followed by cash transfers to beneficiaries at 28 per cent, and programme supplies at 25 per cent.  The LCO is based in Beirut, with two field offices in Zahle in the east of Lebanon and Tripoli in  the north (Tyre field office was in the process of being closed). The country office had a total  workforce of 212 posts (44 international professionals, 101 national officers and 67 general  service), of which 85.6 per cent were based in Beirut, 7.7 per cent in Zahle, and 6.7 per cent in  Tripoli.  Cash Transfers  to CSO  28%  Cash Transfers  to Beneficiaries  22%   Programme  supplies  21%  Other oprating  expenses  9%  Personnel costs  9%  Programme  professional  and expert  6%  Cash Transfers  to Government  4%  Construction  1%  Cash  Transfers -  others  0%  DIAGRAM 1:   TOTAL EXPENSES JAN 2022 TO JUL 2023  Cash Transfers  to Government  5%  Cash Transfers  to CSO  34%  Cash Transfers - others  0%  Cash Transfers  to Beneficiaries  28%  Programme  supplies  25%  Construction  1%   Programme  professional and  expert  7%  DIAGRAM 2:   PROGRAMME EXPENSES COMPONENTS  JAN 2022 TO JUL 2023

AUDIT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND APPROACH  7  The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of  governance, risk management and control processes across a selection of significant risk areas  of the Lebanon Country Office, including   cash transfers to partners and beneficiaries, supply  distribution, construction, and fraud risk management.  The audit scope included key areas, set out in the following table, that were selected during the  audit planning process based on an assessment of inherent risks.   3   The table below briefly  describes the inherent risks in relation to the specific areas covered in the audit.  RISK AREA   KEY INHERENT RISKS EVALUATED DURING THE AUDIT  Fraud risk management   A lack of awareness and accountability may lead to insufficient fraud  prevention and detection measures.  Cash transfer  assurance activities  The country office may not properly plan and execute assurance activities,  resulting in non-discovery or untimely correction of issues that might prevent  the   implementation   of   planned   activities   and   unintended   use   of   cash  transfers, including fraud, misuse, and waste.  Programme and supply  end user monitoring  A programmatic visit assurance plan may not be adequate and due to the  low quality of the programmatic visits, implementation delays/ inefficiency  may go unnoticed. Inadequate supply end user monitoring may lead to  intended beneficiaries not receiving the supplies they need.  Programme  implementation  Lack of integrated programme implementation may lead to inadequate  synergies and programme interventions not achieving results at scale.  Supply management   Weaknesses in supply management, warehousing and distribution may  hamper planned programme implementation. Warehousing and logistics  challenges may result in inefficiency and elevate the risk of diversion.  Implementing  partnerships  Partners   who   do   not   have   the   necessary   capacity,   may   impact   the  effectiveness of programme implementation, reputational risk, and failure to  achieve planned results for children.  Service contracts  including construction  The procurement and management of contracts for services (including  construction) were being directly implemented by the office. Insufficient in-  house   technical   expertise   increases   the   risks   related   to   direct  implementation of complex construction activities.  Cash assistance to  beneficiaries  Contextual issues such as lack of a functional financial system and political  instability led to the LCO directly implementing cash assistance. Weak  beneficiary data management and grievance mechanisms may result in  intended beneficiaries not receiving cash assistance.  Prevention of sexual  exploitation and abuse  Measures may be inadequate to mitigate the risk of beneficiaries, partners  and staff being exposed to SEA, and of SEA incidents not being reported.  Accountability to  Affected Population  Inadequate accountability measures could prevent affected children and  their families from participating in decisions that affect their lives.  The audit was conducted from 5 September 2023 to 26 September 2023 in accordance with the  Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.  For the purpose of audit testing, the audit covered the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 August  2023 and involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data  analytics,   document   review,   test   of transactions,   evaluations   and validation   of   preliminary  observations.  3   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including  internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be  should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control  processes.

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  8  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1.   Findings of HACT assurance activities   Medium  The LCO did not always appropriately act on the financial findings from its HACT assurance  activities, elevating the risk of financial losses that could result from fraud, waste and abuse of  funds entrusted to partners.  UNICEF HACT requires offices to execute financial assurance activities in respect of expenses  reported by implementing partners for the period from October to September of each year. During  the audit period, approximately US$115.6 million was reported as expenses against cash  transferred to partners. The audit team sought to determine whether the LCO’s spot checks and  audits of its partners under the HACT framework were adequately planned and executed to obtain  reliable assurance that partners used the cash transferred to them for the purposes intended by  UNICEF.  The audit team noted that planned assurance activities, for the period, were completed and the  LCO analyzed the findings and used them to inform partner capacity building activities. However,  the audit team noted areas for improvement as follows:  Acting on the financial findings of assurance activities:   To minimize the risk of financial loss,  LCO could have taken reasonable measures, in line with HACT requirements, like analyzing  additional supporting documentation obtained from the partner, obtaining acceptable justification  from the partner, requesting, and obtaining a refund of ineligible expenses from the partner, and  initiating impairment/write-off. UNICEF procedure requires the recording of an impairment as soon  as there is reasonable doubt about the recoverability or if there is indication of the inappropriate  use of the funds advanced, regardless of the status of any investigation. The audit noted the LCO  did not take any of the actions referred to above in respect of approximately US$1.6 million of the  US$2 million financial findings even though the audit questioned the eligibility of the US$1.6  million and noted that it was unable to quantify the actual financial losses due to scope limitation,  passage of time and lack of documentation.  Single vendor dependency:   The audit team noted that the LCO had used the same firm for the  past five years to prepare HACT-related financial statements of a government partner and  execute the HACT-related audit of the same ministry. While appreciating that the services  provided by the firm covered different periods, the audit team remains of the view that these  arrangements create the perception of conflict of interest which diminishes the assurance that  UNICEF and its stakeholders can derive from the services provided by the firm. The arrangements  also create risk-related dependence on a single vendor like delays, poor quality of services,  limited innovations, and high prices. The LCO told the audit team that they did not assess and act  to avoid conflict of interest because it was not required to do so under the HACT framework.  AGREED ACTION 1  The country office agrees to put in place appropriate measures that would ensure:  i.   Pursuit of all available actions for the audit findings on questioned costs, and request  UNICEF Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM) for write-off if  deemed appropriate. Further, ensure there is a process in place for timely impairment  or write-off of the cash transfers arising from questioned or ineligible costs and recording  in VISION.

9  ii.   Potential conflict of interest and single vendor dependency risks are assessed and  appropriately addressed in engaging HACT related assurance providers.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Operations Implementing Partnership  Management Officer, and Quality Assurance Officer  Implementation Date:   30 September 2024  2.   Cash assistance to beneficiaries   Medium  There is a need to strengthen the management of risks related to payments under cash assistance  programmes and grievance redressal mechanisms to increase their usefulness and ultimately  help the LCO to appropriately address the needs of the target population.  UNICEF Lebanon disbursed approximately US$70.8 million to individuals and households under  different cash assistance programmes. The audit team sought to assess the adequacy of the  management   of   risks   related   to   cash   assistance   programmes   and   grievance   redressal  mechanisms. The audit found that each programme had clear targeting criteria 4   discussed and  agreed by relevant stakeholders including government authorities and donors.  Risk management:   The audit noted the need for improved management of the risk of incorrect  payments as well as the payment of ineligible individuals. For example, the risk matrix for the  National Disability Allowance (NDA) programme was not updated to reflect the lessons learned  from prior payment cycles such as payments being made to ineligible individuals and incorrect  payments being made to eligible beneficiaries. This was notwithstanding the fact that a survey in  July 2023 highlighted “recipient identification” as one of the main challenges of the NDA.  Moreover, in another programme, there were allegations of under payment by a Financial Service  Providers (FSP) agent. The audit noted from the discussions with the FSP, that their agents pay  the eligible beneficiaries directly where an incorrect and ineligible payment occurred. However,  not all such cases were reported to the LCO. The improper payments identified by this audit  underscore the need for improved management of these risks.  Grievance redressal mechanisms:   There were indications that the LCO grievance redressal  mechanism (GRM) needed to be improved to increase its usefulness and ultimately help the  country office to appropriately address the needs of the target population. A post distribution  review conducted for one of the programmes in June 2023 found that 58 per cent of beneficiaries  were unaware of how to report complaints to UNICEF. A similar survey conducted for another  programme found that 63 per cent of beneficiaries did not know how to report any allegations.  This limited awareness was the same among beneficiaries interviewed by the audit. The LCO  stated that one of the causes could be the use of certain words which have a different meaning  in Arabic and acknowledged that the low awareness of GRM is an issue that needs to be  addressed.  AGREED ACTION 2  The country office agrees to mitigate risks in the delivery of humanitarian cash programmes by:  4   The eligibility criteria and qualifying conditions that enables the office to identify the households and individuals who, based on the  programme objectives, are “most in need”

10  i.   Adapting cash to beneficiary processes based on lessons learned, regarding incorrect  recipient   identification   and/or   trends   from   complaints,   noted   from   prior   payment  tranches. Further enhance the lessons learned insights by issuing guidance to FSP’s  on the reporting of anomalies and incorrect payments and ensuring the post-distribution  survey seeks feedback in respect of the payment system.  ii.   Perform a mapping and analysis of outreach activities and take measures to address  causes of low awareness of grievance redressal mechanism.  Staff Responsible:   Chief of Social Policy  Implementation Date:   30   September   2024  3.   Payment of teachers’ salaries and operating expenses  of schools   Medium  There is a need to enhance controls around payment of salaries to teachers and to schools for  operating expenses, as ghost workers or padded payrolls reduce the valuable resources meant  for the most vulnerable.  As part of the planned outcome to enhance national capacity for the provision of quality education  to marginalized children, the country office paid US$30.5 million to teachers including those that  are hired by the Ministry of Education and Higher Education to provide teaching services to  refugees and some teachers that were already staff of the MEHE. An additional US$16.5 million  was given to schools to help defray their operating costs. These payments were managed through  the Transition and Resilience Education Fund (TREF). The audit assessed the adequacy of  controls to ensure accuracy and timeliness of payments, recording and reporting.  Payments to individual teachers:   The phenomenon of ghost workers is especially prevalent in  government payrolls and countries with weak public financial management and high levels of  corruption. The LCO relied on the MEHE to ensure that teachers and other professionals recruited  are bona fide, i.e., they exist and are qualified. Hence whilst MEHE has a system that requires  teachers to record the actual hours worked, the LCO did not have a process in place to confirm  whether the teachers on the list provided by MEHE and used for payment of their salaries did  indeed exist. The LCO told the audit team that they also expected the third-party monitor (TPM)  to confirm the existence of teachers during visits to schools; however, there was no indication in  the TPM reports to confirm this – nor was there a requirement for the TMP to confirm the accuracy  of the teachers’ list in the terms of reference provided to them by LCO.  Payments to schools for operating expenses : Audit observed that the US$16.5 million paid to  schools   for   operational   expenses   was   wrongly   recorded   as   cash   assistance   to   individual  beneficiaries (general ledger account number 7700410) in VISION. This account is meant to be  used specifically for direct cash transfers to individuals, households, and the payment of salary  top-ups to individuals supporting the delivery of services to end beneficiaries, e.g., teachers and  health workers. The audit is of the opinion that there are other general ledger accounts that would  be more appropriate for recording cash transfers to institutions that are meant for operational  costs, such as account number 7700780 which is for cash transfers to government - effective and  efficient management.

11  Maintaining and strengthening systems:   System strengthening aims to bring about sustained  change in and/or maintain institutional capacity for social services. The country office paid  salaries, salary top-ups and some operational costs to select government institutions for UNICEF-  supported programmes, as part of efforts to maintain key social services and ensure their delivery  to marginalized children. The payment of salaries and top-ups is, however, a short-term strategy  as it is dependent on the level and continuity of short-term grants, which cannot be assumed. The  LCO noted that although the timeline for transition of short-term interventions is determined by  the government, the country office should find opportunities for sustainable systems strengthening  activities based on the evolving context in Lebanon.  AGREED ACTION 3  The country office agrees to enhance controls around payment of salaries to teachers and for  operating expenses to schools by specifically requiring third-party monitors to confirm the  existence of personnel, accuracy of personnel lists and a review of the MEHE’s recruitment  processes. Reports on the results of such verifications and reviews should be used to inform  the type and depth of assurance and financial capacity building activities performed by the  country office.  Staff Responsible:   Chief of Education section  Implementation Date:   31 October 2024  AGREED ACTION 4  The country office agrees to assess the short-term programme interventions in the context of  the prevailing country situation before the mid-term review and based on the results, develop  a transition plan and timetable for government ownership.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Programmes  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  4.   Programme visits and supply end-user monitoring   Medium  As each programme section was responsible for executing their own programme visits, the  country office did not have a comprehensive overview of any gaps or duplication in efforts or the  adequacy of the overall coverage. Further, supplies end-user monitoring was not systematically  performed to obtain assurance that supplies were indeed received by the intended beneficiaries.  For the period under audit, the LCO made disbursements of US$122.6 million to 83 partners. The  audit assessed whether programmatic visits were adequately planned, resourced, and executed  to enable the early identification and reporting of any implementation issues and provide  assurance that the appropriate assistance was indeed received by intended beneficiaries.  Programmatic visits:   The audit noted each programme section was responsible for planning  and   executing   their   own   programme   visits.   However,   the   country   office   did   not   have   a  comprehensive overview of any gaps or duplication in effort by the programme sections. Having  an overarching view would improve the visualization and tracking of the sectional and geographic  coverage; manage the frequency of visits based on identified and emerging risks; cost efficiency;

12  and importantly, reveal whether cross-cutting and significant issues have been addressed. This  elevated the risk that the programmatic visits are not planned and utilized for effective and efficient  implementation of programmes.  Coverage of programmatic visits:   The audit reviewed a sample of programme visits reports  and noted that key information was often missing. For example, the partner’s name, location,  relevant programme documents or workplan and/or the activity being reviewed was not always  indicated. In addition, the monitoring template did not include key areas as detailed below:     For the monitoring of PSEA risks, although the LCO had developed PSEA risk related  questions, no one was accountable for ensuring that the questions were addressed during  each programme visit and neither was there a system in place to collate and act on the  information gathered.     The audit noted from a sample of 11 programme visits, there were nine partners that had  received programme supplies. The country office included the need to cover supplies in the  programme visit template, however, none of the nine partners in the sample, had a review of  the supplies distributed to beneficiaries, performed.  The country office reported the achievement of a high execution rate of 441 per cent and 193 per  cent against required programme visits (PVs) for 2022 and 2023, respectively. The audit noted  that some activities were incorrectly categorized as “programmatic visits” in eTools, including 35  training sessions, 18 meetings, and nine technical support visits thus overstating the number of  programmatic visits. The actual number of programme visits completed was at times less than  what was planned in the programme documents signed with the individual partners, and there  was not documented reason as to whether the number of visits was adjusted based on the  changing risks of the partnerships. The reduced number of PVs without a clear link to risk meant  the country office was losing the opportunity to address any gaps in implementation. The LCO  mentioned that it had conducted all the required PVs but had not uploaded them into eTools,  however, the audit team was not provided evidence of this.  Supply end-user monitoring (SEUM):   During the audit period, the LCO distributed US$41  million in supplies to implementing partners. However, end-user monitoring was not systematically  performed to obtain assurance that supplies were indeed received by the intended beneficiaries.  The LCO indicated awareness of the gaps in supply end-user monitoring and committed to  adopting UNICEF Supply Division’s SEUM tool once it is rolled out. It was also considering  implementing SUEM in the field monitoring tool being implemented by the country office in  September 2023.  AGREED ACTION 5  The country office agrees to:  i.   Establish comprehensive planning for the management of all programme visits, that  ensures compliance with the minimum requirements, and is also risk informed by  planned visits in the programme documents and findings from prior programme visits.  ii.   Enhance the quality of assurance obtained from programme visits by ensuring that  information is accurate, complete, and correctly recorded in corporate databases for  further analysis. Key components such as PSEA risk monitoring and partner supply  management must be covered as applicable.

13  iii.   Urgently put in place supply end user monitoring in field monitoring tool to ensure that  the programme supplies reach the intended beneficiaries.  Staff Responsible:   Planning and Monitoring Specialist  Implementation Date:   30 June 2024  5.   Programme reporting tools and databases   Medium  Multiple unconnected systems may result in duplicative data entry points and a general lack of  consistent and accurate information, which ensures everyone is working with the same data.  Reporting tools assist UNICEF country offices in gathering and analysing raw data, to gain  important insights into their progress towards planned goals. During the audit period, the LCO  signed 91 programme documents with 51 NGOs. The audit reviewed partner reporting tools and  mechanisms and results reporting and noted the following areas for improvement.  Partner reporting:   The LCO used a locally developed reporting tool (ActivityInfo 5 ) in which  activities were reported and documented by the local partners of all UN agencies in Lebanon.  However, the database was not aligned or reconciled with UNICEF’s corporate systems. For  example:     Narrative   reports   received   from   the   partners   were   not   stored   in   UNICEF’s   partner  management tool (eTools).     Field monitoring and third-party monitoring modules in eTools were not linked to the local  database.     Some indicators in the programme documents were not reflected in the local reporting tool.  Results reporting:   In 2014, UN agencies in Lebanon decided to use systems to monitor  indicators. UNICEF Lebanon began to use the ActivityInfo tool in 2017 and obtained clearance  from the division of Data, Analytics, Planning and Monitoring (DAPM) to utilize it, instead of the  corporate system eTools (partner reporting portal). However, the audit noted that the local tools  do not include all the results monitoring indicators in UNICEF’s Results Assessment Module  (RAM). The LCO stated that funding constraints had impacted their plans to expand monitoring  in local tools to include the output and outcome monitoring indicators in RAM.  Multiple systems:   The LCO had seven separate databases that were used for data collection  and the monitoring of partner and programme activities. The audit noted although some tools  were no longer being used by LCO programme sections, they had not been decommissioned, or  archived. Although the LCO agreed that more systems could be integrated, there were still no  mechanisms in place for the regular review of the redundancy of tools or for the archiving process.  Furthermore, the audit reported a need to consolidate systems to reduce duplicative data entry  points, for verification and to avoid errors. For example, the LCO did not integrate beneficiary  databases used by different programme sections. The country office was using different systems  for cash assistance to beneficiaries delivered by social policy and education programme sections.  This elevates the risk of limited integration of cash assistance programme interventions to improve  the quality and scale of the programmes.  5   An information management software used in humanitarian and development operations.

14  Multiple unintegrated and unaligned reporting systems increase possibility for error and data  inaccuracy. This can lead to the country office’ working with different and inconsistent data sets.  AGREED ACTION 6  The country office agrees to ensure that a plan of action is developed to integrate and align  multiple reporting tools and databases where possible and reconcile the reports with corporate  systems as applicable.  Staff Responsible:   Information communication technology specialist  Implementation Date:   31 July 2024  6.   Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA)   Medium  Inadequate   confirmation   of   subcontracted   partners’   PSEA   assessments,   insufficient   SEA  monitoring and awareness building of communities served elevates the risk that SEA incidents  may occur and go unaddressed.  UNICEF country offices use a range of measures to protect the individuals and communities they  serve, as well as its own staff from sexual exploitation and abuse. UNICEF Lebanon operates in  a high-risk SEA environment. The audit aimed to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of  governance, risk management and controls related to PSEA in Lebanon.  Partnership with government :   The audit revealed that most government partners had not been  trained on PSEA at the time of onsite audit in September 2023 due to the ongoing recruitment of  a PSEA coordinator. In addition, the LCO did not obtain PSEA action plans from its government  partners, because there is currently no global guidance on how to engage government partners  in PSEA efforts. Therefore, an audit recommendation has not been made.  Sub-contracted NGOs : From an analysis of 20 programme documents, the audit revealed that  implementing partners had in fact sub-contracted the implementation of UNICEF-supported  activities to other NGOs. Although UNICEF requires a PSEA assessment of all sub-contracted  NGOs, the LCO did not maintain records or obtain confirmation of the sub-contracted NGOs’  PSEA assessments, findings and/or of the capacity development plans established by the lead  partner. They therefore did not know whether sub-contracted NGOs had been PSEA assessed  within seven months of renewal of partnership or engagement as required. This raises the risk  that NGOs with low PSEA capacity may work in the communities served by UNICEF, resulting in  SEA allegations and cases. The LCO acknowledged the gap and stated that a dedicated PSEA  coordinator position had been approved and that recruitment was in progress at the time of the  audit.  SEA monitoring:   About 50 per cent of the respondents to an independent survey preferred to  report SEA allegations face to face; however, the audit noted only five trips made by a PSEA  coordinator on PSEA matters during January 2022 to August 2023. The PSEA focal point and  CSO partners were required to perform face-to-face monitoring and provide technical support on  the monitoring of SEA in the field. The LCO stated that going forward, programme documents  with the partners will require programmatic visits focused on PSEA.

15  Awareness   raising/training :   Effective   awareness   raising   is   essential   for   empowering  beneficiaries, promoting a culture of accountability, and facilitating timely reporting and address  of sexual exploitation and abuse. The LCO did not extend the PSEA awareness raising measures  to some of its high-risk vendors such as construction companies and local water trucking vendors  as required in its 2023 PSEA action plan. Additionally, 55 consultants recruited for UNICEF  Lebanon by a service contractor had not been trained on PSEA, at the time of the audit.  AGREED ACTION 7  The country office agrees to enhance the management of PSEA risks by:  i.   Improving SEA monitoring by the PSEA coordinator, focal points and CSO partners by  setting key performance indicators for monitoring.  ii.   Maintaining and monitoring a list of sub-contracted NGOs who have been PSEA  assessed and their capacity development plans. Following up with UNICEF partners on  any sub-contractors of concern.  iii.   Providing training and support to all high-risk vendors and contractors in accordance  with the country office’s PSEA action plan.  Staff Responsible:   Programme managers and PSEA specialist  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  7. Screening of consultants and contractors   Medium  Inadequate   screening   of   individual   consultants   and   contractors   against   UN   consolidated  sanctions list exposes the LCO to potential reputation risk.  Country offices should evaluate every individual consultant and contractor to ensure that only  eligible vendors are contracted and retained.  The LCO uses a local human resources firm for recruitment and management of personnel  working on UNICEF-funded projects. During the period under audit, 47 service contracts were  issued for the recruitment and management of 291 individual contractors. The audit review of the  screening process for individual consultants and contractors showed that due diligence process  for recruited individuals was limited to background checks and did not include screening against  the   UN   consolidated   sanction   list,   6   The   LCO   stated   that   sanctions   screening   would   be  implemented from October 2023, however, the audit noted there were ongoing contracts with  individuals that had not been screened. This elevates the reputation risk that there may be  ineligible consultants working for the LCO.  AGREED ACTION 8  6   The United Nations (UN) sanction list refers to a list of individuals, entities, or countries that are subject to sanctions imposed by  the United Nations Security Council.

16  The country office agrees to ensure screening of individual consultants and contractors against  the United Nations consolidated sanctions list before they are recruited.  Staff Responsible:   Human Resources Manager  Implementation Date : 30 June 2024

17  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to  each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity,  area, activity or process, or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a potential opportunity for improvement in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low-priority  observations are reported to management during the audit but are not  included   in   the   audit   report.   Action   in   response   to the   observation   is  desirable.  Medium  The   observation relates to a weakness or   deficiency   in the assessed  governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution  within a reasonable period of time to avoid adverse consequences for the  audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires  prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process ,   or for UNICEF as a   whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for  the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement.  The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a  materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity,  area, activity   or   process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  needed   major   improvement.   The   weaknesses   or   deficiencies  identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance  of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were   not   adequately   established   or   not   functioning   well.   The  weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative  impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or  process.  APPENDIX

18  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St.  New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation