# 2024 OIAI Audit Report of Ghana Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2041/file/2024-oiai-ghana-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2041/file/2024-oiai-ghana-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

1  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  Report on the Internal Audit of the  Ghana Country Office  NOVEMBER   2 024  Report 2024/12

CONTENTS  2  Executive Summary ...................................................................................................... 3  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context   ........................................................................................................................... 7  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach ...................................................................... 9  Observations and Management Action Plan ............................................................ 11  1. Fraud risk management  2. Transfer and monitoring of programme supplies  3. Construction contracts  4. HACT assurance activities  5. Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA)  6. Payment processing  Appendix   ...................................................................................................................... 22  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Ghana Country Office, covering the period from January 2023 to May 2024.   The audit fieldwork was conducted from 3 June 2024 to 14 June 2024 in conformance with the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes over a selection of significant risk areas of the Country Office, including fraud risk management, cash transfers and assurance activities, supplies and logistics management, construction contracts, innovative financing schemes and protection from sexual exploitation and abuse. The descriptions of the specific risks evaluated are provided in the Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach section of this report.  The Ghana Country Office supports the Government of Ghana in the implementation of the country programme through partnerships with the Government at the central and subnational levels and with civil society organizations (CSOs). During the audited period, the Country Office transferred approximately US$14.5 million in cash and US$3.9 million worth of programme supplies to its partners and spent approximately US$5.2 million on construction contracts. There were several risks related to the transfer of cash to implementing partners, the management and distribution of programme supplies and construction contracts. The audit therefore sought to determine whether and how the Country Office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI concluded that the assessed governance, risk management,   or   control   processes   were  Partially Satisfactory, Improvement Needed,  meaning   they   were   generally   adequate   and functioning, but needed some improvement. The weaknesses   or   deficiencies   identified   were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Summary of Observations   and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted several areas where UNICEF Ghana’s controls were adequate and functioned well.  These included:  •   Governance :   The   Country   Office   structure   and   capacity   were   generally   aligned   with programmatic and operational needs and a detailed accountability framework was developed to clarify staff roles and responsibilities in the Country Office and its field office. All statutory committees (Country Management Team, Contract Review Committee, Partnership Review Committee) were properly established, with clear Terms of Reference and appropriate training for committee members, and operated effectively during the audited period. The Country Office established two additional committees: the Risk Management Committee, to facilitate an office-wide approach to risk management; and the PSEA Committee, which coordinated the provision of PSEA training, implementation and reporting of the Country Office’s PSEA action plan and acted as the PSEA focal point for other United Nations agencies in Ghana.  •   Relationship with Government Counterparts and Donors : There was strong collaboration between the Country Office and the Government, as demonstrated by the joint publication of  Satisfactory  Partially   Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory,   Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4  ‘quarterly advocacy briefs’ and ‘annual budget briefs’ that analyse the size and composition of national expenditure on programme outcomes directly related to child rights. The audit team visited three donors, all of whom confirmed that they had positive relationships with the UNICEF Country Office.  •   Innovative Financing Scheme:   The Country Office was piloting a sanitation fund whereby small-scale   loans   were   granted   to   households   and   Micro-,   Small   and   Medium-sized Enterprises in selected municipal and metropolitan districts for the construction of latrines. Since the start of the pilot in 2019, the Country Office has transferred US$833,000 to fund managers for this scheme. As at May 2024, 2,237 toilets have been constructed, with an average loan recovery rate of 87 per cent. At the time of the audit, the Country Office and UNICEF’s Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM) were working towards the expansion of this scheme, in terms of financial value and geographic coverage, with additional funding and enhanced fund management and governance arrangements. Several donors and government counterparts have already expressed interest in this new project.  The audit team also made a number of   observations   related to the management of the key risks  evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:  •   Transfer   and   monitoring   of   programme   supplies:   There   was   a   need   to   clarify accountabilities   and   responsibilities   for   the   management   of   supplies   transferred   to implementing partners and to expand the application of supply end-user monitoring. These and other identified weaknesses in supply and logistics management heightened the risk of diversion and theft of supplies.  •   Construction Contracts : The Country Office needed to integrate budget and performance indicators for construction activities into the overall work planning process to facilitate monitoring and ensure achievement of programme results. There was also a need to strengthen the application of controls over the tendering and contract award process related to construction and to maintain sufficient documentary evidence to demonstrate effective management of construction-related risks. The Country Office also needed to ensure that construction contracts include mitigating measures to protect UNICEF against financial risks.  •   Fraud Risk Management:   While the Country Office had established measures to identify and mitigate fraud risks, there were opportunities to further strengthen its approach to preventing,   detecting   and   reporting   fraud.   These   included   assessment   of   all   activities susceptible   to   fraud,   for   example,   low-value   procurement,   procurement   through   Fund Commitment and manual payments. Despite the high completion rate by staff of fraud-related training, there was a need to enhance efforts to raise awareness of government implementing partners and other external stakeholders of UNICEF’s fraud reporting procedures.  •   HACT Assurance Activities:   The audit team noted several opportunities to strengthen the planning, execution and finalization of assurance activities. These included establishing office- wide   coordination   to   maximize   the   coverage   and   usefulness   of   risk-based   assurance activities; improving the timeliness of spot checks, spot-check reports and follow-up of assurance recommendations; and ensuring the independence, objectivity and quality of spot checks through adequate staff training, as well as staff rotation/avoidance of spot checks by single staff members where feasible. As government implementing partners received more than 80 per cent of the Country Office’s resources, effective HACT assurance is a critical risk management activity.

5  The table below summarizes the key actions management has agreed to take to address the residual risks identified and the ratings of those risks and observations with respect to the assessed governance, risk management and control processes. (See the   definitions of the  observation ratings   in the Appendix.) For all other areas within the audit scope, no deficiencies in  the governance, risk management or control processes evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  OBSERVATION   RATING  Category of  Process   Area or Operation and Key Agreed Action   Rating  Risk  management  Fraud risk management (Observation 1):   C onduct   a periodic assessment  of the potential for fraud and adequacy of existing mitigating measures in  all relevant activities; Ensure that fraud awareness and reporting training is  provided to key service providers and government implementing partners  and that fraud-related information and UNICEF reporting requirements are  adequately distributed in all relevant UNICEF and partner locations.  Medium  Control  processes  Transfer and monitoring of programme supplies (Observation 2):   Map  out the supplies distribution and monitoring processes to accurately reflect  the roles and responsibilities of all parties, identify key risks and assess the  adequacy of control measures to mitigate identified risks and establish a  plan to address identified control weaknesses and to ensure all parties  understand   their respective responsibilities; Develop   and   implement   a  standardized approach to supply end-user monitoring, including monitoring  of supplies during programmatic visits and clarifying SEUM responsibilities  for Programme and Supply section staff.  High  Construction contracts (Observation 3):   Establish a process to ensure  the timely revision and alignment of work plans, budget and the RAM to  capture activities not initially planned; Ensure consistent application of  controls over the vendor selection and contract award process, while  ensuring   that   key   decisions   and   exceptions   to   controls   are   clearly  documented; Ensure that signed contracts include mitigating measures to  protect UNICEF against financial risks.  Medium  HACT assurance activities (Observation 4):   Establish a mechanism to  ensure that spot checks are conducted and reports prepared in a timely manner; Ensure that staff conducting spot checks are appropriately trained and that there are mechanisms to ensure independence and objectivity of spot checks; Establish a mechanism for office-wide coordination of a risk- based HACT assurance approach, with appropriate programmatic visit (PV) coverage   and   performance   of   PVs   during   implementation   of   agreed activities; Ensure that assurance activity reports are uploaded in eTools for timely follow-up and closure of recommendations.  Medium  PSEA (Observation 5):   Implement plans to integrate PSEA monitoring  activities in the Country Office’s overall programme monitoring framework; Ensure adequate PSEA training of service providers and enhance PSEA awareness among all stakeholders through the display of PSEA information at relevant Country Office, field office and partner locations.  Medium  Payment processing (Observation 6):   Continue to   reduce the number of  payments processed manually,   and ensure that they are used only in   Medium

6  exceptional circumstances, in consultation with GSSC and the Regional  Office.  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit. The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk management and control processes.

CONTEXT  7  Ghana   is   a   lower-middle-income country that was the first country to ratify the Convention on the Rights of   the   Child.   The   country   has achieved   significant   gains   for children   since   1990,   halving monetary   poverty   rates,   reducing child   mortality   by   60   per   cent, boosting   immunization   coverage, achieving universal primary school enrolment   with   gender   parity   and extending free education to upper secondary level.  Despite these successes, progress for children has stagnated in recent years. The COVID-19 pandemic and other external shocks have slowed socioeconomic progress, impacting the   country’s   13   million   children. Macro-economic   challenges, including a high debt burden, and the ongoing economic crisis have impacted budgetary allocations and expenditure   within   key   sectors affecting children’s rights, including health care, education, WASH, and child protection services.  Instability in the Sahel region continues to impact northern Ghana’s economic and social vulnerability, with 15,000 persons displaced from Burkina Faso to Ghana in 2023. In September 2023, the Akosombo dam spillage caused significant flooding in two regions, impacting 39,000 people.  Country Programme Document:   The UNICEF Ghana Country Office 2023-2027 programme is derived from the United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework 2022–2025. It responds to the vision of the Government of Ghana for achieving socioeconomic transformation and meeting its development objectives independently, as articulated in the Medium-term National Development Policy Framework 2022–2025. The programme will contribute to the country’s   Sustainable   Development   Goal   aspirations   through   six   components:   Health   and Nutrition, Education, WASH, Child Protection, Social Policy and Programme Effectiveness.  The Country Office supports the Government of Ghana in the implementation of the country programme of cooperation through the country office located in Accra and a field office located in  the northern region of the country. As at June 2024, the Country Office had 118 posts (26 International Professionals, 52 national officers and 40 general service posts) of which 26 were vacant.  The following two charts outline the Country Office programme spending by outcome and by category for the audited period.

8  Figure 1: Programme expenditure by outcome (January 2023 to May 2024)  Figure 1 shows that most resources were spent on health and nutrition. This related mainly to the purchase of medical supplies and the construction of cold rooms for vaccines. The US$8.3 million of   expenditure   under   programme   effectiveness   includes   expenditure   on   advocacy,   social behaviour change and programme monitoring.  Figure 2: Programme expenditure by cost category (January 2023 to May 2024)  Figure 2 provides a breakdown of the Country Office expenditure by cost category for the audited period. The risk areas covered in the audit include three of the four most significant expenditure categories: cash transfers, programme supplies and construction contracts. Staff costs were excluded from the audit scope due to the high degree of centralization and standardization in the administration and management of staff-related costs across the organization.  3.2  1.8  8.3  4.3  5.9  13.3  WASH  Social Policy  Programme Effectiveness  Child Protection  Quality Education  Health and Nutrition  US$ Millions  3.4  5.4  5.2  8.2  14.5  Service Contracts  Programme supplies  Construction contracts  Staff Cost  Cash Transfers  US$ Millions

AUDIT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND APPROACH  9  The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management, and control processes across a selection of significant risk areas of the Ghana Country Office, including fraud risk management, cash transfers and assurance activities,   supplies   and   logistics   management,   construction   contracts,   innovative   financing schemes and protection from sexual exploitation and abuse.  The audit scope included key areas, set out in following table, that were selected during the audit planning process based on an assessment of inherent risks. 1   The table below briefly describes the inherent risks in relation to the specific areas covered in the audit.  RISK AREA   KEY INHERENT RISKS EVALUATED DURING THE AUDIT  Fraud   r isk  management  The Country Office may not effectively identify and assess fraud risks to its programmes and operations and take effective measures to mitigate them.  Governance and office structure  Statutory   committees   may   not   be   established   or   functioning   properly. Accountabilities and delegation of authority may not be adequately defined to ensure effective and efficient functioning and oversight of all programme activities and operations.  Programme monitoring and reporting of results  Insufficient data collection, analysis and timely and regular monitoring may result in a lack of feedback and decision-making for programme adjustments, potentially affecting the programme's impact and effectiveness.  Construction contracts   Inadequate   construction   management   may   result   in   suboptimal   quality,  inefficient and costly construction activities.  Transfer and monitoring of programme supplies  Supplies transferred to implementing partners may not be used for intended purposes,   leading   to   loss   of   resources,   non-achievement   of   results   and reputational risk.  Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA)  Adequate   PSEA   measures   may   not   be   taken,   resulting   in   exposure   of beneficiaries, partners and staff to sexual exploitation and abuse and non- reporting of SEA incidents.  Cash transfer and assurance activities  The   Country O ffice may not properly plan and execute   assurance activities ,  resulting in failure to identify and promptly address issues that might impact implementation   of   planned   activities   and   to   obtain   assurance   that   cash transfers   made   to   implementing   partners   were   used   for   their   intended purposes.  Innovative financing schemes  Lack o f   clarity   regarding   the   C ountry   O ffice’s   role in the implementation of  innovative   financing   schemes   may   expose   UNICEF   to   financial   and reputational risks.  Financial management   The Country Office processes large numbers of payments manually, which increases the risk of payments being made to unauthorized individuals or for unauthorized transactions.  The audit fieldwork was conducted from 3 June 2024 to 14 June 2024 in conformance with the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. For the purpose of audit testing, the audit covered the period from January 2023 to May 2024.  The audit involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data  1   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control processes.

10  analytics,   document   review,   transaction   testing,   evaluations   and   validation   of   preliminary observations.

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  11  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Fraud Risk Management   Medium  While the Country Office had established measures to identify and mitigate fraud risks, there are  opportunities to further strengthen its approach to preventing, detecting and response to fraud.  These include consideration of all activities susceptible to fraud and enhancing efforts to raise  awareness of partners and other external stakeholders of UNICEF’s fraud reporting procedures.  The Ghana Country Office operations in an environment that necessitates a strong commitment  to the systematic prevention, detection and response to fraud and misconduct in all its forms, in  line with UNICEF's anti-fraud strategy.  The audit team evaluated the control processes and activities established by the Country Office  to identify, assess, and mitigate fraud risks in the key risk areas set out in the audit scope and  objectives.   Weaknesses   identified   and   recommendations   are   included   in   each   relevant  observation in this report. The audit team also evaluated the capacity, structure and governance  of   the   Country   Office’s   fraud   risk   management   activities,   including   staff   and   stakeholder  communication and training, fraud risk assessment and the monitoring of appropriate mitigating  controls, as well as the establishment and application of procedures for reporting allegations or  suspicions of fraud or misconduct. OIAI noted the following:  Fraud risk assessment and monitoring:   The Country Office established a risk management  committee to coordinate the identification and assessment of risk within the office, including fraud-  related risks. The Country Office’s risk register included several fraud-related risks, for example,  misappropriation of UNICEF resources by partners/vendors and misappropriation of supplies and  assets by staff. However, it did not cover the full spectrum of the Country Office’s activities that  are susceptible to fraud and the audit did not obtain any justification of how fraud risks related to  these areas are being mitigated. For example, despite the extensive use of manual payment  mechanisms and procurement of goods and services through Fund Commitment,   2   lack of  segregation   of   duties   between   the   procurement   and   receipt   of   supplies,   and   low-value  procurement procedures, the risk of fraud related to these activities and the adequacy of related  control measures were not specifically assessed by the Country Office. The Country Office may  therefore be exposed to fraud risks that have not been properly assessed or mitigated.  The Country Office’s Conflict of Interest declaration for 2024 did not include some of the members  of the Supply and Logistic Unit and programme sections highly involved in the tendering process,  as required by the relevant guidelines. 3   There was no mechanism in place to ensure that those  staff and other members of the Contract Review Committee (CRC) declared a potential/actual  conflict of interest. This elevates the risk that potential/actual conflict of interest may not be  declared and mitigated.  Fraud awareness and reporting : The audit team noted that 96 per cent of staff had completed the mandatory anti-fraud training course as at the time of the audit, and all CSO partners received  2   A Fund Commitment (FC) may be used when a PO is not required due to the low value of the procurement.  3   UNICEF Conflict of Interest Declaration policy states that all staff members who have significant and substantive involvement in any of the following procurement activities - drafting, reviewing or approving statements of work; preparing or developing solicitations; managing the contractor or vendor - must file an annual conflict of interest declaration. This generally includes all staff members who (i) have either approving or co-approving authority for US$25,000 or above, or (ii) spent the majority of their time working on confidential procurement matters.

12  fraud-related training in 2023. While government implementing partners received more than 90 per cent of the Country Office resources during the audited period, there was a lack of training to raise awareness of government implementing partners, as well as vendors, about fraud risks and responses. The audit team also observed that information regarding UNICEF’s fraud reporting procedures was not adequately disseminated to increase fraud awareness among staff, vendors and partners. For example, whistleblower posters were not displayed at the Country Office, Tamale field office or the two implementing partner sites visited by the audit team. Audit interviews with UNICEF staff at the field office indicated a lack of awareness of this requirement. Without a clear understanding of how to report suspicions related to UNICEF's funding and supplies, government implementing partners and vendors may fail to detect or report fraud, thereby hindering the Country Office's fraud risk management efforts.  AGREED   ACTIONS   1  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Conduct a periodic assessment of the potential for fraud and adequacy of existing  mitigating measures in all relevant activities (e.g., low-value procurement, manual  payments and supply distribution) with consideration of all possible forms of fraud,  corruption and misconduct, including financial fraud, asset misappropriation, bribery  and conflicts of interest to ensure a targeted approach to adequately managing these  risks.  ii.   Ensure that fraud awareness and reporting training is provided to key service providers  and implementing partners, and that fraud-related information and UNICEF reporting  requirements are adequately distributed in all relevant UNICEF and partner locations.  Staff   Responsible:   (i)   Deputy   Representative   Programmes   and   Deputy   Representative  Operations (with Finance, Supply and PME teams and Country Office Risk Management  Committee);   (ii)   Deputy   Representative   Operations   and   Implementing   Partnerships  Management Specialist (HACT)  Implementation Date:   31   March   202 5  2. Transfer and Monitoring of Programme Supplies   High  There was a need to clarify accountabilities and responsibilities for the management of supplies transferred to implementing partners and to expand the application of supply end-user monitoring. These and other weaknesses in supply and logistics management heightened the risk of diversion and theft of supplies.  The Country Office transfers supplies directly to implementing partners from vendors or from the United   Nations   humanitarian   response   depot   (UNHRD).   Health   supplies,   which   constitute approximately 95 per cent of total supplies, are managed by government partners and fully integrated into the in-country supply chains, with logistics support from the UNICEF Country Office. For the period January 2023 to May 2024, the Country Office transferred to implementing partners supplies worth US$3.2 million directly from vendors and US$0.5 million from the UNHRD warehouse. The audit team evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of controls over the transfer of supplies to ensure the timely distribution of the expected quantity and quality of supplies to the intended beneficiaries. OIAI noted the following:

13  Identification and follow-up of discrepancies:   The audit team selected four release orders totalling US$225,000 for supplies transferred in February 2024. In one case related to education supplies, the quantity transferred by the Country Office (as per the release order) exceeded the quantity received by the implementing partner (as per the waybills) by US$10,000. The Country Office explained that the difference related to supplies due to be transferred to partners. However, the audit team noted that the supplies were no longer in the corporate system (VISION), nor physically present in the warehouse in June 2024. While this was the only exception noted in the sample selected, it was not identified or flagged by any of the parties involved for the purpose of investigating   the   underlying   cause   and   taking   appropriate   action,   including   reviewing   the adequacy of controls to mitigate the risk that supplies may be misappropriated or diverted.  Segregation of duties:   The audit team noted a lack of segregation of duties between the procurement and receipt of supplies by the Country Office, as Supply staff were responsible for both procuring supplies and confirming receipt of the supplies in the system. Segregation of incompatible duties ensures that no individual or group of individuals is in a position to perpetrate and/or conceal errors or fraud in the normal course of their duties and is one means of mitigating the risk of loss or misappropriation of supplies. This was particularly important as 86 per cent of supplies   procured   during   the   audited   period   were   transferred   directly   from   vendors   to implementing partners.  Supplies transferred to implementing partners : It is good practice in any partnership or collaborative arrangement to set out in writing the agreed responsibilities and accountabilities of each partner in sufficient detail to ensure effective, efficient implementation of agreed objectives and to mitigate the risk of any dispute or contractual issues in the event of failure of either party to fulfil its accountabilities. The Country Office signed workplans with its government implementing partners, according to the UNICEF requirement. The audit team noted that the Health and Nutrition (H&N) workplan, which was signed by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and Ghana Health Services (an implementation arm of the MOH) did not indicate the amount of supplies to be transferred   to   these   partners   nor   did   it   clearly   state   their   respective   responsibilities   and accountabilities, including the partners’ responsibility   for storing, recording and distributing supplies to final beneficiaries. The audit team explored this issue further and determined that it applies not only to Ghana Country Office but to other UNICEF country offices and would therefore be followed up by OIAI at the organizational level.  The lack of detailed accountabilities in the workplan was a source of confusion, which created challenges for the Country Office in ensuring effective monitoring of supplies. Discussions with Country Office programme, supply and logistics staff and Ghana Health Services officials, and OIAI’s visit to the central medical store, all indicated a lack of clarity as to which partner was accountable for the supplies received from UNICEF. The audit team noted that the Country Office recorded Ghana Health Services in VISION as the recipient of supplies, when, in fact, supplies were received, managed and distributed by the central medical store, managed by the Ministry of Health (MOH). This resulted in gaps in supplies monitoring, as outlined below. The audit team also   noted   that   there   was   no   documented   workflow   that   clearly   set   out   the   roles   and responsibilities of all respective parties and identified the key risks and essential control measures in the local supply chain.  The Country Office did not always receive confirmation when supplies were delivered to the regional or district medical stores, despite this being mandated by UNICEF procedures on programme implementation. Such confirmations are necessary to ensure that supplies have been received by the final beneficiaries. The Country Office explained that there is a rigorous national

14  supply chain system to track the movement of supplies from central, regional, district levels to facilities but the audit team was not in a position to verify the adequacy of that system.  These weaknesses not only limited the Country Office’s ability to obtain assurance that supplies transferred to implementing partners are delivered to the final beneficiaries but also increased the risk of misuse and diversion of supplies.  Supply End-user Monitoring (SEUM) : The UNICEF procedure on programme implementation mandates rigorous end-user monitoring to ensure that supplies transferred to implementing partners have been delivered to beneficiaries or used for intended purposes. The audit team noted inconsistent application of SEUM within the Country Office. Although the Tamale field office conducted some end-user monitoring at the Ghana Health Service regional office, no documented evidence was available to demonstrate that SEUM was conducted in other regions of the country or at other implementing partners. None of the programmatic visit reports reviewed by the audit team for partners that received supplies included any evidence that supplies were monitored during those visits. The gaps in SEUM were also due to unclear responsibilities for supplies monitoring in the Programme sections and Supply unit and to the fact that the partner that physically receives supplies is not the same as the partner to which the Country Office transferred supplies (as mentioned above), which meant that the Country Office was not informed when supplies were transferred to the final beneficiaries.  Insufficient end-user monitoring, combined with non-confirmation of receipt of supplies by end- users, limits the Country Office’s ability to obtain assurance that supplies transferred by the Country Office were received by the final beneficiaries.  AGREED   ACTION S   2  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Map out the distribution and monitoring processes related to Health & Nutrition supplies,  to accurately reflect the roles and responsibilities of all parties, identify key risks and  assess the adequacy of control measures to mitigate identified risks, and establish a  plan to address identified control weaknesses and to ensure all parties understand their  respective   responsibilities   and   supplies   can   be   accurately   tracked   to   recipient  implementing partners and delivery to beneficiaries.  ii.   Develop   and   implement   a   standardized   approach   to   supply   end-user   monitoring  (SEUM), including monitoring of supplies during programmatic visits and clarifying  SEUM responsibilities for Programme and Supply section staff.  Staff Responsible:   (i) Chief of Health & Nutrition, Supply Manager (ii) PME Manager and  Supply and Logistic Manager  Implementation Date :   (i)   3 0 April   2025   (ii) 31   March   202 5  3. Construction Contracts   Medium  The Country Office needed to integrate budget and performance indicators for construction activities into the overall work planning process to facilitate monitoring and ensure achievement

15  of programme results. There was also a need to strengthen the application of controls over the tendering   and   contract   award   process   related   to   construction   and   to   maintain   sufficient documentary evidence to demonstrate effective management of construction-related risks. The Country Office needed to ensure that signed contracts include mitigating measures to protect UNICEF against financial risks.  During the period January 2023 to May 2024, the Country Office spent US$5.2 million (22 per cent of total expenditure) on construction projects in various districts of Ghana. The procurement and management of construction services were handled directly by UNICEF, with technical expertise provided by a third-party engineering firm. Contracts were awarded in lots to four vendors. The audit team assessed the design and operating effectiveness of the Country Office’s planning, management, and oversight of construction activities, and tested the application of controls related to the vendor selection and contract award process of selected contracts, to ensure effective use of funds in support of programmatic objectives. OIAI noted the following:  Budgeting and monitoring construction works:   The Country Office signed multi-year work plans, covering the period January 2023 to December 2024. The audit team reviewed the Health and Nutrition (H&N) work plan and noted that the construction budget (approximately 35 per cent of the H&N budget of US$14.8 million) and related target indicators were not included in the work plan signed with the Government or in the UNICEF result framework (RAM). The Country Office explained that the absence of budget and indicators in the work plan was due to an error in the Country Office’s quality assurance process. The Country Office informed OIAI that it initiated an exchange of letters with the Ministry of Health in June 2024 to revise the work plans, although those letters were not available for OIAI’s review at the time of the audit. Not including all relevant budget and indicators in the work plan and the RAM exposes the Country Office to the risks that programme activities and funds are not properly monitored and that programme results may not be achieved as planned.  Solicitation, bidding process and contract award:   Country Offices are expected to follow UNICEF guidance on Supply of Goods and Services with respect to the solicitation, bidding and awarding   of   contracts,   including   for   construction   activities.   The   audit   team   reviewed   four construction contracts that amounted to US$5.2 million and noted that controls related to the receipt and handling of bids and the award of contracts, designed to prevent or detect fraud, were not operating as required. Both the technical and financial proposals were submitted at the same time, using an email address accessible by the staff member who was responsible for opening the bids. UNICEF procedures require that electronic bid submissions be protected by a password, accessible only by the appointed bid committee. The Request for Proposal did not specify the cut- off time for bid submissions, as required, which posed a risk that bids already received may be opened and figures shared with other bidders yet to submit their bids.  The contracts were awarded in four lots to four vendors as follows (Lot A for US$ 0.9 million, Lot B for US$ 1.2 million, Lot C for US$ 1.5 million and Lot D for US$ 1.6 million). However, the audit noted that one of the vendors that received a contract (Lot D) did not have adequate financial capacity to execute the contract. Even though the SEU assessment 4   of this vendor was medium, with unsatisfactory financial situation, the Country Office proceeded to award a contract to this vendor, for US$1.6 million, which was 88 per cent more than the vendor’s 2022 annual turnover, or US$0.7 million more than its total assets. Other vendors assessed by the SEU as having a  4   UNICEF procedures on vendor registration and management require that, prior to contract award, the Supply Evaluation Unit (SEU) conduct a financial evaluation to ensure that potential vendors have the necessary financial resources and stability to deliver the proposed contracts.

16  solid financial situation and with satisfactory technical scores were awarded contracts for lower amounts. The Country Office explained that it awarded this contract based on the technical score and the overall saving to the Country Office of US$300,000 and that the financial risks related to the contract were mitigated through progress payments and site visits. In this case, the audit team was unable to find adequate evidence to support the decision or to demonstrate that the financial risks had been assessed and were being monitored. Due to a lack of documentation, the audit team also was unable to verify how the Country Office addressed and monitored construction- related risks identified by the Contract Review Committee.  Awarding contracts to vendors with insufficient financial capacity exposes UNICEF to the risk that the vendor may not be able to deliver to the terms of the contract. Maintaining documentary evidence of the adequacy of key decisions and the process by which such decisions were arrived at supports strong, transparent governance and effective risk management.  The audit team noted that contracts were awarded to vendors for construction work tied to short- term grants, without including penalty clauses for delayed execution, as required. As at May 2024, all construction projects were behind schedule; one project for which the grant was due to expire in June 2024 was only 48 per cent complete. While the Country Office explained that this was an omission that would be corrected in subsequent construction contracts, the audit attributed it to a lack of thorough contract review. Awarding contracts without such clauses means that the Country Office has no legal means by which to hold contractors to account for late delivery of construction work.  AGREED   ACTION S   3  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Establish a process to ensure the timely revision and alignment of work plans, budget  and the RAM to capture activities not initially planned.  ii.   Ensure consistent application of controls over the vendor selection and contract award  process, while ensuring that key decisions and exceptions to controls are clearly  documented.  iii.   Ensure that signed contracts include mitigating measures to protect UNICEF against  financial risks.  Staff Responsible:   (i) PME Manager; (ii) and (iii) Supply and Logistics Manager  Implementation Date :   28 February 2025  4. HACT assurance activities   Medium  The audit team noted several opportunities to strengthen the planning, execution and finalization of assurance activities. These included establishing office-wide coordination to maximize the coverage and usefulness of risk-based assurance activities; improving the timeliness of spot checks, spot-check reports and follow-up of assurance recommendations; and ensuring the independence, objectivity and quality of spot checks through adequate staff training, as well as

17  staff rotation/avoidance of spot checks by single staff members where feasible.   As government implementing partners received more than 80 per cent of the Country Office’s resources, effective HACT assurance is a critical risk management activity.  Under the Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT) framework, UNICEF country offices are required to carry out assurance activities to ensure the proper use of cash transfers by implementing partners, including programme visits, spot checks and audits. The framework also requires timely, complete and accurate follow-up of financial findings from assurance activities. During the audited period, the Country Office completed 142 programme visits, 70 spot checks, and 2 audits, meeting the minimum risk-based HACT assurance activity requirements. The audit team assessed the Country Office’s planning, execution, quality assurance and follow-up of assurance activities and noted the following areas for improvement:  Performance and quality of spot checks:   In the Ghana Country Office, spot checks are conducted by UNICEF staff members. However, the audit team noted that one staff member performed multiple spot checks of the same seven partners during the audited period, and that 61 of the 70 spot checks in the audited period were conducted by a single staff member. While not a UNICEF requirement, it is good practice to rotate staff or to assign more than one staff member to perform spot checks, to ensure independence and objectivity of these important assurance activities.  The audit team found that 50 per cent of the 70 spot checks conducted during the audit period did not result in any observations or recommendations. In the other 50 per cent, 15 of the 32 high- priority action points in eTools were classified as “other,” 5   which made it difficult to analyse, follow up and close the recommendations. Although the Country Office explained that the lack of recommendations was a result of comprehensive HACT training provided to partners, in OIAI’s experience, this may also be indicative of a need to ensure that staff are adequately trained to conduct spot checks and that adequate measures are in place to ensure the integrity of the assurance process. The audit team also observed that three of six staff performing spot checks did not attend the Regional Office’s training for spot checkers.  Timely finalization of spot-check reports:   The audit team noted that spot-check reports were not produced on a timely basis to enable the prompt follow-up and closure of recommendations. For example, 15 final reports of the 70 spot checks conducted during the audited period (21 per cent) were produced more than 120 days after the field visit, with two of those reports produced after 250 days. The Country Office explained that the delays were mainly due to partners not providing comments on time and to the internal processes for validation and approval of the reports. These delays in finalization of spot-check reports may be partly explained by the limited involvement of senior personnel in the Country Office’s follow-up efforts with implementing partners.   Late   completion   of   spot   checks   can   impact   the   timely   resolution   of   financial discrepancies, result in late assurance on cash transferred to partners and delay the Country Office’s ability to address weaknesses identified within the partners internal controls systems.  Programmatic visits:   Programmatic visits (PVs) provide assurance on the status of programme implementation compared to the work plan and on the reliability of programme results reported by implementing partners. The minimum required number of PVs for each partner is generated in  5   Key categories are: ‘reimbursement of ineligible expenditure’, ‘lack of supporting documents’ and ‘internal control weaknesses.’

18  eTools when the partner receives at least US$2,500. The Country Office should then conduct the required PVs within the activities implementation period as defined in FACE 6   forms.  The audit team noted that, as at May 2024, the Country Office had not conducted a single programmatic visit of 35 implementing partners (including 9 high-risk partners) that received total cash transfers of US$2.2 million between October 2023 and March 2024. Twenty-four of those partners had fully or partially liquidated the cash transferred to them. There was no available evidence of any other field monitoring visits to verify the progress of these activities. The Country Office explained that these programmatic visits were included in the 2024 assurance plan and would therefore be conducted. However, the activities had already been implemented and some of the partners had already liquidated the cash transferred to them. Failure to conduct sufficient, timely programmatic visits and other field monitoring reduces the Country Office’s opportunities to take any corrective measures or to make adjustments to agreed activities.  The audit team also found that partner risk ratings and the amount of cash transferred were not always used as the basis for determining the programmatic visit plan. For example, in 2023, the Country Office only conducted 11 of 17 required programmatic visits for 12 implementing partners (including four high-risk partners with cash transfers of US$348,000) that received a total of US$ 662,000 in cash transfers. In the same year, the Country Office conducted 44 visits for 16 partners (including 15 low-risk partners that received 42 programmatic visits, far above the minimum requirement of 18 visits). There was insufficient office-wide, coordinated oversight to maximize risk-based programmatic visit coverage, such that the Country Office did not make most effective use of its limited resources.  Follow-up of assurance recommendations:   The audit team noted that assurance activity reports were not promptly uploaded in eTools to allow actions to be followed up. For example, an audit query related to 12 partners revealed that the reports from 8 programmatic visits conducted during the audited period were not uploaded in eTools for tracking. In 5 of 11 sampled spot-check reports with high-priority recommendations, 9 of the 26 high-priority recommendations were not recorded in eTools for tracking and follow-up. While the Country Office tracked and closed six of those recommendations offline, there was no evidence that the Country Office was tracking the remaining three high-priority recommendations. Without such tracking, there was an elevated risk that identified gaps might not be effectively addressed. Audit discussions with the HACT team indicated a need for further training to ensure that recommendations are correct, adequate and promptly implemented.  AGREED   ACTIONS   4  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Establish a mechanism to ensure that spot checks are conducted and reports  prepared in a timely manner.  ii.   Ensure that staff conducting spot checks are appropriately trained and that there are  mechanisms to ensure independence adequacy and objectivity of spot checks, for  example, by rotating staff and/or minimizing spot checks conducted by a single staff  member.  iii.   Establish a mechanism for office-wide coordination of a risk-based HACT assurance  approach, with appropriate programmatic visit (PV) coverage and performance of PVs  during implementation of agreed activities.  6   FACE – Funding Authorization and Certificate of Expenditure

19  iv.   Ensure that there is timely follow-up and closure of all recommendations and that  assurance activity reports are uploaded in eTools in a timely fashion.  Staff Responsible:   PME Manager & Implementing Partnership Management Specialist  Implementation Date :   31   March   202 5  5. Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)   Medium  While the Country Office assessed partners’ SEA risks and established mitigating action plans, there was a need to integrate the follow-up of the partners’ agreed actions into field monitoring and to increase SEA awareness among partners and service providers working directly with the Country Office.  The Country Office operates in a context where there are significant challenges related to sexual violence and gender-based issues. Measures to protect vulnerable communities from sexual exploitation and abuse are of particular importance in northern Ghana, where there is a high number of refugees from the Sahel crisis.  The audit team assessed whether controls were adequate and operating effectively to ensure that the risk   of   SEA   was understood and that   sufficient   mitigating   actions   were planned   and implemented. This included measures to ensure that all staff, as well as implementing partners, vendors, interns and consultants are equipped to prevent and respond to SEA and that at-risk communities have access to and are aware of safe reporting channels.  The Country Office established a PSEA committee whose role is to support the coordination and implementation of the PSEA and Child Safeguarding policy and procedures by UNICEF staff and partners; the development, review, implementation and reporting of the Country Office’s PSEA action plan; and the integration of PSEA by UNICEF programme sections into regular programme activities, as appropriate. This committee is also the PSEA focal point for other United Nations agencies in Ghana. It has rolled out staff and partner training on PSEA reporting requirements and procedures and developed and disseminated a Code of Conduct to 160 officers from the Ministry of Education/Ghana Education Service. While acknowledging these achievements, the audit team also noted the following areas for improvement with respect to PSEA:  Monitoring of PSEA during programmatic visits:   As at the date of audit, in addition to government implementing partners, the Country Office worked with 22 CSO partners, of which 14 had a moderate SEA rating and 6 had a low SEA rating. The Country Office established action plans with CSO partners, as required, to mitigate identified SEA risks. UNICEF programme implementation procedures require Country Offices to integrate the follow-up of partners’ PSEA agreed actions into programmatic visits and other field monitoring activities. The audit team reviewed 12 of the 42 programmatic visit reports from the audited period and noted that the implementation of PSEA agreed actions by partners was not monitored during these visits. This was because the County Office had not updated their field monitoring template to cover SEA. They however stated that they plan to incorporate PSEA into the office’s field monitoring activities from July 2024. The lack of consistent monitoring of PSEA activities reduces the Country Office’s ability to monitor the effective implementation of PSEA through the collection, analysis and use of the data gathered.

20  Training and awareness:   The audit team noted that 99 per cent of Country Office staff and a high proportion of non-staff personnel completed the mandatory PSEA training. By contrast, there was a need to expand coverage of PSEA training to include third-party service providers, such as security personnel, cleaners and canteen staff, who work in the country office in Accra, and in the field office in Tamale. The audit team noted that these service providers were not trained on PSEA, either by UNICEF or by their employer. The Country Office explained that some of these service providers were contracted by other United Nations agencies for the provision of common services and that UNICEF was working with the Resident Coordinator to provide PSEA training. The audit team also observed that there were no PSEA-related posters displayed in strategic locations (for example, the main entrance, canteen and drivers’ rest area) of the country office, field office, or at some partner sites visited by OIAI, to raise awareness of PSEA and the available reporting mechanisms.  Inadequate PSEA capacity of UNICEF stakeholders increases the risk of misconduct and underreporting of SEA cases.  AGREED   ACTION S   5  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Implement plans to integrate PSEA monitoring activities in the Country Office’s overall  programme monitoring to ensure that action plans are adequately implemented to  mitigate partners’ SEA risks.  ii.   Ensure adequate PSEA training of service providers and enhance PSEA awareness  among all stakeholders through the display of PSEA information at relevant Country  Office, field office and partner locations.  Staff Responsible:   (i) Implementing Partnership Management Specialist (ii) Child Protection  Specialist & Human Resource Manager and Implementing Partnership Management  Specialist.  Implementation   Date:   3 0   April   2025  6. Payment Processing   Medium  A significant proportion of payments to implementing partners and vendors were processed manually,   exposing the Country Office to an increased risk of payments to unauthorized individuals or for unauthorized transactions.  The UNICEF policy on cash disbursement aims to manage the risk of processing payments for unauthorized purposes or to unauthorized individuals. It distinguishes between two principal types of payment, electronic fund transfer (EFT) and manual payment (FT). It recommends that EFT should be the primary payment method, allowing payments to be processed electronically by the Global Shared Services Centre (GSSC) through a banking interface with no manual intervention from Country Office staff. This increases efficiency and reduces the organization’s exposure to potential fraud or manual error.   FT should only be used in exceptional cases or when the local banking system does not support the use of an electronic banking interface. During the period January 2023 to May 2024, the Country Office processed payments amounting to US$25.4 million. Of these, US$14.4 million (57 per cent, or 893 payments) were manual. The audit team sought to understand the reasons for this high level of manual payments and noted the following:

21  Manual bank transfers:   The Country Office processed 737 manual bank transfers amounting to US$14.1 million to pay implementing partners, institutional vendors, and individual consultants. Although the payments were initiated by the GSSC, the Country Office staff still needed to print, sign, and transmit transfer letters to the banks for payment. The Country Office and GSSC finance team explained that the manual bank transfers were used to make payments to recipients with account names whose length exceeds the number of characters accepted by the electronic payment platform. However, the audit team noted that the bank account names of 65 per cent of these transfers were below this limit and could not ascertain why the payments were manually processed.  Cheque payments:   The UNICEF policy on cash disbursement requires that cheques should be used only in rare circumstances, for example, where electronic banking facilities are unavailable or untrustworthy. Manual cheques can be lost, stolen, forged, altered and improperly endorsed. The Country Office processed 156 cheques amounting to US$200,000 during the audited period even though electronic banking facilities exist in Ghana. While the Country Office explained that daily subsistence allowances (DSA) for staff on stretch assignments and other international travel costs were paid by cheque for staff that did not have a US$ bank account, the audit team could not ascertain why cheques were used to pay vendors, individual consultants, and staff for trips within Ghana. For example, 7 cheque payments were made to local staff for trips within Ghana, 35 to individual consultants and 25 to vendors. The Country Office’s standard operating procedure did not clearly state the circumstances under which cheques should be used and any financial threshold for the use of cheques.  The Country Office stated that over the past few years, they have made significant efforts to reduce the number of manual payments. The audit team confirmed that manual payments, as a proportion of total payments, decreased by 30 per cent between December 2022 and April 2024.  The frequent use of manual payments and cheques increases the risk of fraudulent or erroneous payments to unauthorized individuals or for unauthorized transactions and is an inefficient use of staff time.  AGREED   ACTION   6  The Country Office agrees to work with GSSC and the Regional Office to reduce the number  of payments processed manually, and ensure that they are used only in exceptional  circumstances.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative, Operations and Finance Officer  Implementation Date :   31   January 2025

22  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity, area, activity or process, or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a   potential opportunity for improvement in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low-priority observations are reported to management during the audit but are not included   in   the audit   report.   Action   in response   to the   observation   is desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to   a   weakness or deficiency in the assessed  governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution within a reasonable period of time to avoid adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a   fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process, or for UNICEF as a whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management or control processes were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  needed   major   improvement.   The   weaknesses   or   deficiencies identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes were   not   adequately   established   or   not   functioning   well.   The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  APPENDIX

23  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St.  New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation