# 2024 OIAI Audit Report of Afghanistan Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2031/file/2024-afghanistan-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2031/file/2024-afghanistan-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

0  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  Report on the Internal Audit of the  Afghanistan Country Office  NOVEMBER 2024  Report 2024/11

1  CONTENTS  Executive Summary ...................................................................................................... 2  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context   ........................................................................................................................... 5  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach ...................................................................... 7  Observations and Management Action Plan............................................................... 9  1.   Senior Staff Turnover  2.   Notes for the Record  3.   Management of Implementing Partnerships  4.   Management of Extenders  5.   HACT Assurance  6.   Protection from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation  7.   Warehousing and Supply End User Monitoring  8.   Safety and Security  9.   Risk Management  Appendix   ...................................................................................................................... 20  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

2  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the UNICEF Afghanistan Country Office (ACO), covering the period from January 2022 to December 2023. The audit was conducted from February 2024 to March 2024 in accordance with the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The overarching objective of   the audit   was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management, and control processes across a selection of significant risk areas of the country office including the overall control environment, prevention of sexual exploitation and   abuse   (PSEA),   partnerships,   service   contracts,   programme   supplies   and   harmonized approach to cash transfers (HACT). The descriptions of the specific risks evaluated are provided in the Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach Section of this report.  UNICEF   Afghanistan   works   exclusively   with   civil   society   organizations   (CSOs)   in   the implementation of planned programme activities. During the period audited, the ACO transferred approximately US$577 million to implementing partners, representing 40 per cent of total expenditure, whilst   programme   supplies amounted to US$300 million or 21 per cent of total expenditure. In addition, there were several risks around the use of service contracts and PSEA. The audit sought to determine whether and how the country office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI concluded that the assessed governance, risk management,   or   control   processes   were  Partially   Satisfactory,   Major   Improvement Needed   meaning that the assessed governance, risk management or control processes needed major   improvement.   The   weaknesses   or deficiencies identified could have a materially  negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted several areas where UNICEF Afghanistan’s controls were adequate and functioned well. For example, the United Nations Country Team (UNCT) agreed in November 2021 to work collectively towards a more coordinated risk management approach, and in April 2023, the Risk Management Team (RMT) was formalized and put in place to serve as an inter-agency platform for a common risk management approach. During the audit, a meeting with the RMT secretariat confirmed that UNICEF actively participates in and contributes to the common risk management approach and inter-agency collaboration on the strategic risks associated with implementation of the United Nations Strategic Framework for Afghanistan.  The audit team also made a number of o   bservations related to the management of the key risks  evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:  •   Senior staff turnover :   The country office has had higher than expected turnover at the representative level and key positions remain vacant. This has had a negative effect on office culture and staff morale and if not addressed may affect programme delivery.  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory, Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

3  •   Notes for the record:   The country office processed a number of notes for the record (NFRs), that were significant both in terms of value and deviation from procedure. Further, there was no formal tracking and storage method for hardcopy NFRs. The prevalent use of NFRs has the effect of ‘normalizing the abnormal’ as well as heightening the risk of fraud, waste and abuse   of   funds   provided   to   partners   and   vendors   for   the   implementation   of   UNICEF interventions.  •   Management of implementing partners:   While UNICEF’s preferred method of identifying implementing partners is open selection, UNICEF Afghanistan used direct selection and did not keep sufficient documentation on the selection process. This raised questions about the transparency of the selection process with the potential for missed opportunities to enhance localization efforts by increasing the pool of capable national non-governmental organizations (NGOs).  •   Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse:   The safeguards to manage SEA risks by CSOs, which include conducting capacity assessments, undertaking skills strengthening activities,   and   developing   context-specific   monitoring   frameworks,   were   not   operating effectively, thus increasing the risk of SEA and related reputational risks to UNICEF.  The table below summarizes the key actions agreed upon by country office management to address the residual risks identified and the ratings of those risks and observations with respect to the assessed governance, risk management and control processes. (See the   definitions of audit  observation ratings   in the Appendix.)   For all other areas within the audit scope, no deficiencies in  the governance, risk management or control processes evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  OBSERVATION RATING  Category of  Process   Area or Operation and Key Agreed Action   Rating  Governance  Senior staff turnover (Observation 1):   The Regional Office for South Asia  (ROSA), in consultation with the Division of Human Resources (DHR) and the  country office, should develop a plan to smooth transitions of senior leadership  positions   in   ACO   and   reinforce   the   completion   of   their   tour   of   duty   in  Afghanistan.  High  Notes for the record (Observation 2):   The country office agrees to e nsure  that all exceptions to UNICEF policies and procedures are managed in line  with the relevant provisions of the UNICEF Policy on the Regulatory  Framework.  High  Risk  management  Risk management (Observation 9):   The country office agrees to   e stablish  an integrated risk management structure, supported by sufficient guidelines,  tools   and   any   necessary   training,   to   ensure   a   coherent,   efficient,  comprehensive approach to the country office’s risk management, building on  progress   to   date   and   seeking   guidance   from   the   RO   and   UNICEF  Headquarters, as appropriate and to establish a procedure or guidelines for  escalating key risks and red flags identified through multiple sources for action  at different levels.  Medium  Controls  processes  Management of implementing partnerships (Observation 3):   The country  office agrees to   implement a competitive selection process of CSOs, ensuring  that rigorous independent due diligence processes are applied and sufficiently  documented for all new and key existing partners and ensure that activities do  not commence without an approved PD.  Medium

4  Management of extenders (Observation 4):   The country office agrees to  establish dedicated   capacity for the planning, coordination and oversight of the  extender workforce, minimizing the number of service contracts issued for  similar   services   and   to   establish   a   mechanism   to   ensure   the   effective  management of extender SEA risks and consideration of the performance of  extenders in the overall performance evaluation of the third-party service  provider.  Medium  PSEA (Observation 6):   The country office agrees to   establish procedures to  ensure that PSEA assessments/reassessments are promptly conducted and  that relevant capacity improvement plans for these partners are put in place  and tracked, and to. establish controls to ensure that the vendor master  accurately reflects the appropriate SEA capacity rating for the CSOs, and to  develop a SEA risk monitoring framework that draws on the lessons learned  and informs PSEA activities and actions.  High  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit. The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk management and control processes.

5  CONTEXT  Afghanistan is a landlocked country with a population of approximately 43 million, of which a little less than half are   children.   The   country has experienced more than four   decades   of   conflict, exacerbated   by   climate impacts,   resulting   in   a prolonged   need   for humanitarian   assistance. According   to   the   2023 Revised   Humanitarian Response   Plan, approximately   29.2   million people,   including   15.8 million children, struggled to meet their basic needs in Afghanistan.   The   overall situation   further deteriorated after the political takeover of the Taliban in 2021. A decree by the de facto authorities, curtailing women’s and children’ rights and fundamental freedoms, has undermined progress in health and economy by restricting access to education and employment for women and girls and impeding their mobility and access to essential services.  Since mid-September 2023, the return of over 470,000 Afghans from Pakistan, of which 54 per cent are children, has presented additional challenges. The daily border crossings peaked at 17,000 in early November 2023. Over 4.6 million Afghans in Iran are also at risk of deportation, which could put additional pressure on Afghanistan’s already overstretched social service systems. In October 2023, western Afghanistan faced three 6.3-magnitude earthquakes affecting 275,256 people with direct physical damages amounting to US$217 million. The Post-Disaster Needs   Assessment   (PDNA)   report 1 ,   emphasized   the   need   to   transition   from   immediate humanitarian aid to long-term recovery.  Persistent economic instability and poverty in Afghanistan necessitate a redefined narrative, recognizing the interconnectedness between humanitarian aid and basic needs. Insufficient investment in key social services perpetuates dependency on aid. UNICEF's dual humanitarian and development mandate plays a crucial role in convening partners to define a comprehensive humanitarian-development-peace response for Afghanistan.  Afghanistan as a state is decentralized. Each region/province has some measure of autonomy. The ACO is based in Kabul, with five zone offices covering five regions (North – Mazar-i-Sherif, South - Kandahar, East - Jalalabad, West – Herat, and Central - Kabul) as well as six outposts. As at 31 January 2024, the ACO had 491 staff, of which 63 per cent were in Kabul (including the Kabul field office).  1   United Nations Afghanistan Herat Earthquakes 2023 Post-Disaster Needs Assessment

6  For the reporting period, January 2022 to December 2023, the total expenditure of the country office was US$1,421 million, outlined in Figure 1 below.  During the audit period Afghanistan was operating in an emergency context. From 8 September 2021 to 13 June 2023 Afghanistan was declared to be a Level 3 emergency by UNICEF, and from 14 June 2023 to 31 December 2023 it was downgraded to Level 2. During emergencies, country offices are allowed to use simplified procedures instead of the standard global policies, for a range of programmatic and operational activities, so that they can respond faster to events on the ground.  40.6% Cash transfers to partners  21.1% Programme supplies  13.0% Cash Transfers to Beneficiaries  10.9% Other expenses  8.3% Personnel emoluments  3.5% Programme services  FIGURE   1:   TOTAL EXPENSES BY CATEGORY 2022 to 2023  Construction   0.5% Bank and cash expenses   2.0%

7  AUDIT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND APPROACH  The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes across a selection of significant risk areas of the ACO including the overall control environment, risk management, PSEA, partnerships, social and humanitarian cash transfers, service contracts, programme supplies and warehousing, HACT programme assurance, field monitoring, security, accountability to affected populations, and cash management.  The audit scope included key areas, set out in the following table, that were selected during the audit planning process based on an assessment of inherent risks 2 .   The table below briefly describes the inherent risks in relation to the specific areas covered in the audit.  RISK AREA   KEY INHERENT RISKS EVALUATED DURING THE AUDIT  Control Environment   There is a two - year tour of duty for all international professional staff in  Afghanistan, although staff can be reassigned after one year. Changes more frequent than this in senior country office management can create upheaval in the working environment, leaving a sense of instability and uncertainty within the office. This can be compounded by unclear and poor delegation of authority and edicts that restrict women in work which could impact staff morale, staffing capacity and ultimately the country office’s ability to deliver planned results .  Risk Management   At the time of the audit, the ACO’s approach to risk management was not sufficiently coordinated, which may result in ill-informed decision-making and inappropriate decisions related to the management of risk i.e., whether to accept, avoid, reduce or share risks. In addition, as Afghanistan is a high fraud-risk environment, inadequate fraud risk management activities may expose the country office   to misappropriation of funds, embezzlement, corruption, misuse of resources or other irregular practices.  Prevention of Sexual  Abuse and Exploitation  Existing PSEA capacity building and monitoring mechanisms may not be effective given the extensive use of third-party contractors, in an operating context with restrictive measures that mostly impact women and children.  Partnerships   Cash to partners accounted for 40 per cent of the country office’s total expenses during the audit period. Nepotism, collusion, inadequate due diligence, and coordination within the ACO’s decentralized structure, could lead to selection of implementing partners without the capacity to implement activities effectively and manage key risks. This could also result in loss of funds and mismanagement of UNICEF resources.  Social/Humanitarian  Cash Transfers  Cash to beneficiaries amounted to 13 per cent of total expenses during the  period   under   review.   Due   to   the   collapse   of   the   banking   system   in  Afghanistan,   the   country   office   uses   non-traditional   financial   service providers, which resulted in elevated financial risks in need of mitigation.  Service   C ontracts with  Third-Party Extenders  During   the   audit   period,   the   country   office   used   approximately   2,700 extenders   working   for   partners   contracted   by   the   ACO,   because   of Afghanistan’s difficult geography, lack of transportation infrastructure, and the remoteness of many communities, which made access a challenge. Inadequate management and the inappropriate use of extenders deployed by   the   country   office,   could   result   in   the   inefficient   and   ineffective implementation of   programmes.  Program me   Supplies  and Warehousing  Programme   supplies accounted for 21 per cent of total expenses during the period under review. Poor planning, particularly for local procurement, and inadequate warehouse management practices could impede the country offices’ ability to address the logistics challenges in Afghanistan, resulting in  2   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control processes.

8  RISK AREA   KEY INHERENT RISKS EVALUATED DURING THE AUDIT  disruptions in the supply chain. Such disruption could affect programme delivery and result in delays in the implementation of programme activities.  HACT   A ssurance   Inadequate planning and implementation of assurance activities may lead to a failure to obtain adequate assurance that implementing partners use resources for the intended purposes and a failure to identify and recover ineligible expenditure.  Implementation  Monitoring  Poorly developed field monitoring plans that do not take into consideration  programmatic   risk   could   lead   to   inadequate   field   monitoring   visits   and consequently the untimely identification and correction of implementation problems. Further, inaccessible locations coupled with security concerns hampers monitoring by UNICEF staff leading to a heavy reliance on third party monitoring. Poor management of third-party monitors could further exacerbate the risks to the programme.  The audit was conducted from February 2024 to March 2024 in accordance with the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. For the purposes of audit testing, the audit covered the period from January 2022 to December 2023. The audit involved a combination of methods, tools, and techniques, including interviews, data analytics, document review, tests of transactions, evaluations, and validation of preliminary observations.

9  OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Senior Staff Turnover   High  The country office has had higher than expected turnover at the representative level and key positions remained vacant at the time of the audit. This has had a negative effect on staff morale and if not addressed may affect programme delivery.  During the period under audit, the ACO had a high turnover of senior management level staff, particularly at the representative level. Between January 2022 and January 2024 there had been three different representatives and a fourth had been appointed at the time of the audit. The last three representatives had, on average, been in the post for approximately 10 months respectively, well below the expected tour of duty of two years.  Similar turnover was noted in other senior staff posts. In addition to the representative, there were several senior staff vacancies such as:  •   Principal Adviser Health who was responsible for the largest programme of the country office.  •   Project management unit coordinator responsible for providing project management services to programme sections and management of humanitarian and social cash transfers and programme incentives.  •   International financial institutions (IFI) coordinator responsible for coordinating activities with large donors (mainly IFIs).  The country office informed the audit team that, for staff below representative level, the expected minimum service period in Afghanistan was one year, and that staff normally moved on after that period. The audit team was informed that the frequent changes in senior staff, in a highly pressurized environment, has affected office culture and more specifically staff morale. It also created risk to the maintenance of effective relationships with key stakeholders like donors, partners and beneficiaries.  AGREED   ACTION 1  The Regional Office for South Asia, in consultation with the Division of Human Resources and  the country office, agrees to develop a plan to smooth transitions of senior leadership for  identified critical positions in the ACO and reinforce the completion of their tour of duty in the  country.  Staff Responsible:   SSRE Team  Implementation Date:   31   December   2025  2. Notes for the Record   High  The country office processed several notes for the record, that were significant both in terms of value and deviation from procedure. Further, there was no formal tracking and storage   method for hardcopy NFRs. The prevalent use of NFRs has the effect of ‘normalizing the abnormal’ as well as heightening the risk of fraud, waste and abuse of funds provided to partners and vendors for the implementation of UNICEF interventions.

10  Prior to the introduction of the UNICEF Policy on the Regulatory Framework on 1 July 2024, country offices were permitted to use NFRs to document the justification and approval of exceptions to a UNICEF procedure or standard .   Since issuance of the new Policy and the related Procedure   on the   Regulatory   Framework,   country   offices must   request   approval   from   an Approving Authority as defined in Section 4.15 of the Policy, before allowing any exception.  The audit team noted the following in respect of the use of NFRs:  Use of NFRs to reimburse partners : During the audit period, the country office utilized several NFRs to   justify   not   implementing   adequate   due   diligence   and   effective   risk   management procedures in respect of payments made to partners and vendors. 1,106 NFRs were processed through the ACO’s system called eProcesses, designed to record and document the approval process for NFRs. Although the country office had introduced the NFR recording system, the audit found that not all NFRs were captured or logged. Programme and supply/procurement related NFRs, which country office management deemed sensitive, were kept in hardcopy by the relevant sections. These tended to be significant both in terms of value and deviation from procedure. For example,   after   international   non-governmental   organizations   (iNGOs)   were   banned   from implementing community-based education (CBE) programmes in Afghanistan on 6 June 2023, the ACO used NFRs to reimburse the iNGOs US$9.2 million in respect of activities and expenses the country office did not pre-authorize and for which the required HACT assurance activities had not been conducted. In fact, the audit noted that reimbursements of expenses that the country office had not pre-authorized had occurred regularly prior to 6 June 2023.  In some cases, the justifications for not implementing adequate risk management procedures like those   established   under   the   HACT   framework   were   questionable.   For   example,   in correspondence related to the reimbursements, the field offices mentioned lengthy direct cash transfer (DCT) processes, which require pre-authorization of activities and related expenses before implementation. Field offices also stated that they needed to work with certain partners who did not qualify to receive DCTs because of high SEA risks, etc. The audit noted that the NFRs did not systematically document any additional risks arising from the use of NFRs nor any additional measures required to mitigate the increased risk, for example, enhanced reporting obligations to address the higher SEA risk related to certain partners.  Use of NFRs to procure programme supplies locally : NFRs related to the local procurement of programme supplies, which were significant in terms of value were processed outside of the eProcesses system. In fact, as was the case with partners, no register of the NFRs related to programme supplies was maintained.  NFRs were utilized due to the lack of effective processes to prevent their use in bypassing key controls. There was no verifiable and reliable vetting process and clear hierarchy or escalation process for the approval of these hardcopy NFRs, to manage potential conflict of interest, prevent staff from approving payments that exceed their financial delegation of authority, ensure disputes are amicably addressed, and effectively handle complex cases. Further, the prevalent use of NFRs for the same exceptions has the effect of “normalizing the abnormal” and increasing the risk of fraud going undetected.  AGREED   ACTION 2  The country office agrees to ensure that all exceptions to UNICEF policies and procedures  are managed in line with the relevant provisions of the UNICEF Policy on the Regulatory  Framework.

11  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Operations, Risk Management Unit (RMU) and  Chief of Planning, Monitoring and Data (PMD)  Implementation Date:   30 N ovember 2024  3. Management of Implementing Partnerships   Medium  While UNICEF’s preferred method of identifying implementing partners is open selection, UNICEF Afghanistan used direct selection and did not keep sufficient documentation on the selection process. This raised questions about the transparency of the selection process and elevated the risk of corruption, for example steering partnerships to particular NGOs or not selecting the most qualified partner. It also increased the potential for missed opportunities to enhance localization efforts by increasing the pool of capable national NGOs.  The ACO transferred cash resources totalling US$555.5 million to NGOs during the period audited. Approximately 68 per cent was transferred to national NGOs, while the rest was to international NGOs. UNICEF procedures recommend the competitive selection of NGOs, with country offices expected to perform due diligence procedures on prospective implementing partners and to manage and oversee any programme documents signed with them. Audit assessed the effectiveness of controls around the selection of suitable CSOs and the management and oversight over the programme document development process. The following was noted:  Selection of CSOs:   Audit found that 69 per cent of partnerships established between 2022 and 2023 were through direct selection. In addition, the due diligence process was based on self- declaration by CSOs in the United Nations Partner Portal (UNPP 3 ), with some, albeit inconsistent, validation by the country office. OIAI is of the view that insufficiently independent due diligence exposes the partner selection process to integrity risks, if not supplemented by adequate additional measures. In a sample of 15 CSOs, there was one instance where the QR code on the registration certificate did not correspond to the same entity and a further six where key registration documentation was missing. The country office attributed these gaps to the manual selection and due diligence process, with not all relevant documents being uploaded in the corporate repositories. The country office was unable to provide the requested missing documents to the audit team.  Approval of programme documents:   The audit team found 22 programme documents out of 349 programme documents processed during the audit period, with commencement dates before the programme document was approved. This was due to inadequate oversight of programme staff by supervisors. Although the programme documents were approved post-facto, the lack of adequate oversight before commencement of activities exposed the organization to the risk of implementing unplanned activities.  AGREED   ACTION   3  The country office agrees to:  i.   Implement the competitive selection of CSOs, ensuring that rigorous, independent due  diligence processes are applied on all new partners or when there is additional relevant  3   UNPP is an interagency web-based tool designed to bring about a harmonized, efficient, and easy collaboration between CSOs and their UN partners. Its features include, among others, publishing partnership opportunities, creation of CSO partner profiles, due diligence verification of prospective partners and PSEA assessment.

12  information   needed   on   existing   partnerships.   Sufficient   documentation   should   be  maintained as evidence of the due diligence and selection process.  ii.   Ensure that activities do not commence without an approved programme document.  Staff Responsible:   Chief PMD, Deputy Representative of Programme / HACT Committee  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  4. Management of Extenders   Medium  There were weaknesses in the management of extender contracts, including a lack of coordinated workforce planning, which resulted in lost discounts and not all extender staff attending mandatory PSEA training.  The ‘extender’ modality was established during 2015 and 2016 when the security situation in Afghanistan meant that vast areas of the country were inaccessible to UNICEF staff. The use of additional third-party resources or ‘extenders’ was deemed necessary to support programme delivery to vulnerable populations in hard-to-reach areas. The ACO had long-term arrangements with two service providers to supplement its own human resources in those locations, whilst UNICEF remained responsible for the technical guidance and supervision of these extenders. At the time of the audit, the country office had contracted only one of these service providers for procurement of services amounting to US$47.3 million (approximately 27 per cent of total service contracts) during the audited period. The audit team reviewed the effectiveness of the mechanisms in place to manage third-party contracts and extenders and noted the following:  The country office commissioned an external review of extenders in 2022 which raised concerns about the lack of coordinated annual workforce planning between programme sections and zone offices. These concerns included the fact that in several instances workers were recruited by sections and deployed to the regions without the knowledge of the zone offices, leading to duplication of work and confusion with regards to supervision and reporting. Although the ACO had drafted an extender planning template to facilitate a coordinated approach, it was not fully utilized and 114 service contracts totalling US$47.3 million were issued to one service provider by different sections and zone offices during the audit period. It is estimated that the ACO lost potential discounts from the service provider of approximately US$402,395 during the audit period as a result of this lack of coordination.  The audit team obtained confirmation from the service provider of the number and cost of extenders deployed and found variances between the number of extenders employed and the number for which monthly payments by UNICEF Afghanistan were recorded. Although the country office eventually provided the audit team with reconciled records that explained these variances, the audit team noted that there was no requirement to perform periodic vendor reconciliations, to enable the timely detection and resolution of anomalies.  The standard contract with the service providers requires mandatory PSEA training for   all extenders. However, the PSEA training status for the service provider that had active contracts with UNICEF as at December 2023, showed that only 32 per cent of the extenders had completed the training. This was due both to the failure of the service providers to deliver the PSEA training and to the absence of any oversight or checks by the country office to monitor the training status and assess the impact of this lack of training on the level of SEA risk. In general, the audit noted that

13  although service providers are required to keep adequate records on extenders, including training and performance evaluations, there was no clear process to ensure firstly that UNICEF’s supervisors provided feedback to the service provider on the extenders’ performance, and secondly to ensure that such feedback was incorporated in the evaluation of the third-party service provider.  The above issues stemmed from insufficient management and oversight of the entire process, which was due to the lack of a dedicated focal point and unclear staff responsibilities.  AGREED   ACTION   4  The country office agrees to:  i.   Establish dedicated capacity for the planning, coordination, and oversight   of the  extender workforce to ensure that the number of service contracts for similar services  are minimized, duplication of effort is limited and value for money is enhanced.  ii.   Ensure that periodic vendor reconciliations are performed to ensure that extender  records and payments to vendors are accurate.  iii.   Establish a mechanism to ensure that relevant UNICEF staff provide feedback to the  service providers on the performance of extenders, and to inform UNICEF’s overall  performance evaluation of the third-party service providers.  iv.   Establish a mechanism to ensure that there is oversight by UNICEF of key service  provider contractual requirements, such as completion of PSEA training, and that SEA  risks arising from non-adherence are appropriately managed and the service provider  sanctioned as appropriate.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative – Programme, Chief PMD and Chief Project  Management Unit   Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  5. HACT Assurance   Medium  The country office should improve its approach to HACT programme assurance activities to maximize coverage of high-risk partners and make more efficient use of the results of both financial and programme assurance activities.  The audit team reviewed the country office’s implementation of HACT assurance activities to assess whether they enabled the ACO to appropriately manage the risks arising from cash transfers to partners. The following issues were noted:  The country office’s approach to determining its programmatic visit coverage was not fully risk- based. The audit found that in 2022 and 2023, the ACO did not conduct the minimum number of required programmatic visits for 38 partners that received US$20.3 million and 22 partners that received US$14.1 million, respectively, despite those partners being assessed as high risk. On the other hand, the ACO conducted more than the minimum visits required for some partners that had lower risk ratings. There was no clear reason for these variances, for example, related to the degree of risk attached to working with a particular partner, and therefore the programme visits could not be said to be risk-based. Furthermore, because planning and implementation of

14  programmatic visits was siloed between the programme sections and zone offices, the overall country office oversight system was inadequate. This decentralized approach meant the country office did not make most effective use of its limited resources to obtain assurance from programmatic visits that agreed activities were implemented and that partners’ capacity-building needs could be addressed. As a result, risks related to working with partners identified as high may not have been adequately mitigated.  The audit team sampled seven audit reports that had a qualified audit opinion and significant high priority findings. In four out of seven cases, the partners had been previously micro-assessed as low or medium risk. Nevertheless, the country office did not consider the impact of the audit report findings on the partner risk rating and therefore did not make appropriate adjustments to the risk rating. The audit team also found that the ACO did not always record or follow up high priority recommendations from audits, spot checks and programmatic visits in the action point tracking module of eTools. In 12 out of 20 sampled spot checks and audits, the high-priority findings and recommendations were not recorded in eTools. Similarly for the programmatic reports, the audit team found ten reports for which key recommendations were not recorded in eTools for tracking and follow-up.  AGREED   ACTION   5  The country office agrees to:  i.   Improve the programmatic visit quality assurance process by assigning responsibilities  for office-wide coordination and oversight of programmatic visits to ensure that the  selection of implementing partners for programmatic visits is risk-based and the risk of  working with high-risk partners is adequately mitigated.  ii.   Put in place a review process to oversee the quality and completeness of the reports  and ensure that all high priority recommendations from spot   checks, audits and  programmatic visits are recorded in eTools, tracked, implemented and followed up.  Staff Responsible:   Chief PMD and RMT, Deputy Representative Programme / Chief PMD  Implementation Date:   31 D ecember 2024  6.   Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)   High  The safeguards to manage SEA risks by CSOs, which include conducting capacity assessments, undertaking   skills   strengthening   activities,   and   developing   a   context-specific   monitoring framework, were not operating effectively, thus increasing the risk of occurrence of SEA and related reputational risks to UNICEF.  The ACO relied on more than 100 CSOs, vendors and other non-state humanitarian workers to deliver aid and services to communities in Afghanistan during the audited period. UNICEF procedures mandate country offices to perform an assessment of the capacity of CSOs to manage SEA risks and, where appropriate, support CSOs in their PSEA capacity-strengthening plans. The audit team reviewed the adequacy and operating effectiveness of controls to ensure that the risk of SEA within the local context was understood and monitored, and that sufficient mitigating actions were in place. The following was noted:  Capacity assessments:   As at February 2024, 52 per cent of the active CSOs due for PSEA assessment/reassessment were yet to be assessed, and the audit team noted that, in four of the

15  ten   instances   reviewed,   programme   implementation   continued,   even   though   the   PSEA assessment had not been completed within the three-month grace period. This was due to inadequate monitoring of the CSOs’ PSEA capacity status by the ACO. The audit team also observed that the SEA risk rating in the vendor master database erroneously showed that some partners were rated as ‘full capacity’, the best rating, even though those partners had not been PSEA assessed, or the relevant assessment showed that they had ‘low/medium capacity’ rating. These errors occurred because ACO did not ensure that requests to update PSEA ratings in the system were supported by completed capacity assessments. Consequently, the necessary controls to monitor low/medium capacity partners and ensure that they implement plans to attain full capacity within the stipulated period were not implemented. Without capacity assessments, the ACO was unable to apply appropriate mitigation measures to manage SEA risks.  In the sample of 30 CSOs selected by the audit team, 28 were considered as having low/moderate capacity and did not have improvement plans to address the identified gaps. This exposed the ACO to inadequate safeguards against SEA risks in high-risk partnerships. The country office attributed the lack of partner capacity assessments and strengthening plans to the transition to the   harmonized   United   Nations   common   PSEA   assessment   in   the   UNPP   which   created challenges for partners. However, the audit team also noted that the lack of adequate oversight by ACO management and clarity on the responsibilities for PSEA capacity assessments could have also caused the lapse in controls.  Monitoring of SEA risks:   The ACO indicated that there were sensitivities associated with the term ‘sexual exploitation and abuse’ in the country context and therefore the country office used various   approaches   to   obtain   PSEA   data   and   information   including   grievance   redressal mechanisms, community engagement feedback centres, and assurance activities. However, the country office acknowledged that it was yet to draw lessons from these approaches to inform other tools and approaches. The lack of a systematic PSEA monitoring framework could result in relevant   SEA   information   not   being identified and   addressed through risk-informed PSEA activities.  AGREED   ACTION 6  The country office agrees to:  i)   Establish procedures to ensure that PSEA assessments/reassessments are promptly  conducted, and that relevant capacity improvement plans are put in place for partners  and the implementation of those plans is adequately tracked.  ii)   Establish controls to ensure that vendor master data accurately reflects the SEA  capacity rating for CSOs.  iii)   Develop a SEA risk monitoring framework that draws on the lessons learned and  informs the approach to PSEA.  Staff Responsible:   PSEA Specialist / RMU/ Implementing Partner Management Specialist /  PMU  Implementation Date:   28 February 2025  7. Warehousing and Supply End User Monitoring   Medium  The country office had not conducted warehouse capacity assessments for some implementing

16  partners that had received significant value of supplies, resulting in a lack of assurance as to the partners’ capacity to receive, store and distribute UNICEF supplies. In addition, there were gaps in supply end-user monitoring which meant that the country office could not determine whether the supplies provided to implementing partners had reached the intended beneficiaries and were of suitable quality and benefit to the end user .  During the period January 2022 to December 2023 the ACO spent US$300 million on programme supplies. The audit noted the following issues related to the management of supplies.  Supplies to implementing partners:   Country offices perform logistics capacity assessments to ensure that implementing partners have sufficient capacity to receive, store and dispatch supplies for programme activities. During the audit period, the country office dispatched supplies worth US$192.3 million to implementing partners. Of a sample of 10 implementing partners, only four warehouse capacity assessments had been conducted. The audit team was informed that the remaining capacity assessments had not been performed due to access and/or security issues. In addition, the country office should have adequate documentation to support the dispatch of supplies to partners. However, the audit team found that of a sample of 20 release orders processed during the audit period, only eight had evidence of an agreed distribution plan or a request from an implementing partner and the basis for dispatch of the remaining 12 release orders was not provided to the audit team.  Supply end user monitoring : The country office had established supply end-user monitoring and relied only on HACT programmatic visits to monitor supplies contributed by UNICEF. However, in a sample of 17 programmatic visit reports that included supplies (e.g., medical, water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH), school supplies, tablets), seven reports indicated that supply end-user monitoring was not carried out, despite the partner receiving significant supplies, and in six other reports, UNICEF staff had not fully documented what had been done during the monitoring activities performed. Reliance on programmatic visits alone and gaps in the documentation of work conducted during programmatic visits meant the country office had insufficient assurance on whether the supplies provided to implementing partners had reached the intended beneficiaries and were of suitable quality and benefit to the end user.  AGREED   ACTION   7  The country office agrees to:  i.   Ensure that capacity assessments are performed on implementing partners that  receive significant or sensitive programme supplies and that supplies are dispatched  based on an approved partner request and distribution plan designed to meet the  needs of the communities served.  ii.   Develop a comprehensive supply end-user monitoring process by enhancing the  means and tools used to perform the monitoring and assigning responsibility for  overseeing and ensuring adequate coverage of programme supply distributions.  Staff Responsible:   Chief of supply and logistics section, PMD/programme/supply  Implementation Date:   31   December 2024  8. Safety and Security   Medium  The   ACO   did   not   implement   certain   critical/mandatory   security   risk   management   (SRM)

17  measures, including the security awareness training and advanced safe driving course to address emerging security risks, thus exposing staff to harm due to inadequately mitigated safety and security risks.  The audit team assessed the adequacy of controls in the security risk management process and found that these were operating effectively, resulting in clear security accountabilities, effective and efficient coordination of safety and security, and implementation of SRM measures and other relevant security standards. The following observations were made:  Private security services:   Since 2019, armed and unarmed private security guards have been deployed across all UNICEF office locations in Afghanistan, in accordance with SRM measures. Afghanistan has undergone significant changes since 2019, including regime change and a reduction in the number of security incidents. Despite these contextual adjustments, the ACO did not conduct an evaluation of the private security contract to reassess its justification and fitness for purpose, in the current operating context. Consequently, annual spending on private security has remained the same since 2019, averaging US$6 million per year. The country office informed the audit team that an evaluation of this contract was planned to take place in mid-2024.  Security risk measures:   The audit team noted delayed implementation of critical/mandatory SRM measures. For instance, the country office did not provide Women Security Awareness Training (WSAT) to all female staff, despite the operating context in Afghanistan being restrictive to women. The country office indicated that the lack of adequate capacity had led to a backlog in training. To address this, the ACO had one security staff member attend a training of trainers (ToT) course in December 2023, with the intention to clear the backlog. Furthermore, there were inconsistencies in SRM documents as to whether the advanced safe driving course for drivers was mandatory or not and in which security areas it should be applied. However, despite an increase in the number of road incidents and accidents, the country office had not yet sought clarification of the requirements or commenced the training.  AGREED   ACTION   8  The country office agrees to:  i.   Undertake an assessment of the security needs of the office as part of UN-wide  assessment, the capacity of the security service provider to meet these needs and  update UNICEF private security contract accordingly.  ii.   Conduct the following in-house training in collaboration with UN Department for  Safety and Security to ensure compliance with the Security Risk Management  (SRM)   requirements:   Safe   and   Secure   Approaches   in   Field   Environments  (SSAFE)/Afghanistan Specific Training (AST) for all personnel, Women Security  Awareness Training (WSAT) for all female personnel, Advanced Safe Driver  Training ( ASDT) for all drivers, Individual First Aid Kit (IFAK) training for all staff,  and Emergency Trauma Bag (ETB) training for selected staff.  Staff Responsible:   Security Manager  Implementation Date:   i. 31 January 2025 ii. 30 June 2025  9. Risk Management   Medium  The ACO’s fragmented risk management structure created challenges to the effective coordination and

18  communication of information necessary to enable risk-informed decision-making and management of risks in an efficient, coherent manner. With respect to fraud risk management, there was a need to establish a procedure for escalating identified risks and red flags to ensure appropriate follow-up and investigation.  Country offices should identify, assess, monitor, and respond to key risks to achieve their objectives and   ensure that the risk environment is regularly scanned for changes and mitigating actions are assessed for their ongoing effectiveness. A coordinated, comprehensive approach is essential to ensure sufficient management and oversight of risks and to allow timely, risk-informed decision-making and escalation of issues, as appropriate. The audit team reviewed the adequacy of the ACO’s approach to ensuring regular assessment and management of significant and emerging contextual risks, including fraud-related risks, and noted the following:  Risk Management framework:   The ACO has a Risk Management Committee (RMC), chaired by the Representative, which met four times during 2023. Its terms of reference included spearheading the governance of an office-wide risk management approach, providing regular overview of risk action planning, managing risk escalation and providing strategic and technical advice to the Representative and Deputy Representative Operations. In 2023, the ACO engaged all sections in the identification, assessment and mitigation of risks, before consolidating the key risks into a country office register. The risk register was reviewed once in 2023 and there were plans for the RMC to review it periodically, from 2024 onwards. The country office also maintained separate fraud and PSEA risk assessments.  While the country office assessed the effectiveness of mitigating actions for identified risks, the audit team noted inconsistencies between the individual and consolidated risk registers, specifically in relation to the assessment of procurement fraud and SEA risk, which increased the risk of ill-informed decisions in these inherently high-risk areas. These stemmed from the ACO’s fragmented risk management structure and a lack of any process or guidance to ensure coordination and coherence between the separate risk management units. It was also unclear what efforts had been made to establish a common understanding of the country office’s risk tolerance in each key area.  At the time of the audit, the following risk management units were in place:  •   A Risk Management Unit under Operations comprising a P5 Senior Operations Manager and a P4 Risk and Compliance Manager, responsible for overall risk management in the country office.  •   A HACT management team under Planning, Monitoring and Data (PMD), responsible for risks related to implementing partner management, spot checks and audits.  •   A P3 Risk Management Specialist under the Project Management Unit (PMU) primarily supporting risks relating to cash grants.  •   A HACT management team under the PMU responsible for spot checks, programmatic visits, and audits related to implementing partners under PMU.  •   A PSEA specialist under the Front Office responsible for managing PSEA risks.  •   Two Programme Specialists responsible for Environmental and Social Safeguard risks.  ACO Management were considering several options for integration of these structures. The audit team took note that the country office could not implement a new structure without undergoing a PBR process.  Monitoring and reporting of fraud indicators:   The audit team noted weaknesses in the identification and escalation of red flags from financial assurance activities. For example, in one instance, a finding on inflated prices was identified during a spot check but was not reported to OIAI for follow-up. Other instances were noted where suspicious invoices and potentially forged quotations were not reported/escalated to the RMC for action. In one of the two cases involving

19  inflated prices, the partner refused to refund the ACO and yet the country office closed the action point in eTools without any further action. Further, although the country office had reiterated the need for all staff to report any red flags, suspected fraud etc. to the RMC or directly to OIAI, they did not assign responsibility for ensuring that this happened. Failure to monitor and report red flags may limit the country office’s ability to detect and address indicators or patterns in processes that point to potential irregular activities.  Rotation of duties and obligatory time off are tools commonly used to prevent or identify possible fraud or corruption. UNICEF staff in key functions who do not take time off for vacation is a potential red flag. However, the country office did not have any mechanism to monitor enforcement of these preventive practices. The risk of fraud and corruption is further exacerbated by the fact that most staff do not rotate duties and deal with the same partners and suppliers over many years. The audit team reviewed a list of staff with an excess of over 60 days of annual leave in both 2022 and 2023 and noted that 134 national staff lost excess leave days in both years. In total, 86 of the 134 national staff had been working for the country office for more than 10 years, including staff in key functions, with some never rotating to a different function since they joined the country office. When long service staff in key functions do not take sufficient leave days, it leads to increased opportunity for fraud and other irregularities.  A GREED A CTION   9  The country office agrees to:  i.   Establish an integrated risk management structure, supported by sufficient guidelines,  tools   and any necessary training,   to ensure a   coherent,   efficient, comprehensive  approach to the country office’s risk management, building on progress to date and  seeking guidance from the RO and UNICEF Headquarters, as appropriate.  ii.   Establish a procedure or guidelines for escalating key risks and red flags identified  through multiple sources for action at different levels.  Staff Responsible:   Representative/Deputy Representative Operations  Implementation Date:   (i) 30 April 2025 (ii) 31 December 2024

20  APPENDIX  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity, area, activity or process, or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a potential opportunity for improvement in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low-priority observations are reported to management during the audit but are not included in the audit report. Action in response to the observation is  desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to a weakness or deficiency in the assessed  governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution within a reasonable period of time to avoid adverse consequences for the  audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process, or for UNICEF as a whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity,  area, activity or process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  needed   major   improvement.   The   weaknesses   or   deficiencies  identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were   not   adequately   established   or   not   functioning   well.   The  weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative  impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.

APPENDIX  20  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St.  New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation