# 2024 OIAI Audit Report on the Kenya Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/1956/file/2024-oiai-kenya-country-office-audit.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/1956/file/2024-oiai-kenya-country-office-audit.pdf.pdf)

---

1  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  Report on the Internal Audit of the  KENYA COUNTRY OFFICE  APRIL 2024  Report 2024/02

CONTENTS  2  Executive Summary ...................................................................................................... 3  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context   ........................................................................................................................... 7  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach .................................................................... 10  Observations and Management Action Plan ............................................................ 12  1. Role of Quality Assurance Section  2. Fraud Risk Management  3. Cash Transfers to Implementing Partners  4. HACT Assurance Activities  5. Service Contracts  6. Civil Society Organization (CSO) Partnerships  7. Supply Distribution and Supply End-user Monitoring  8. Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse  Appendix   ...................................................................................................................... 23  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the UNICEF Kenya  Country Office, covering the period from 1 January 2022 to 30 November 2023.   The audit was  conducted from 15 to 30 November 2023 in conformance with the Code of Ethics and the  International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The overarching  objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk  management and control processes over a selection of significant risk areas of the Kenya Country  Office,   including   programming   and   monitoring,   cash   transfers   to   implementing   partners,  procurement and supplies, and fraud risk management. The descriptions of the specific risks  evaluated are provided in the Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach section of this report.  The Kenya Country Office operates in an environment prone to socio-economic challenges,  including hosting of refugees and climate-related events such as floods and droughts, which lead  to food insecurity and disrupted livelihoods. In September 2022, a Level 3 1   (L3) emergency was  announced in view of the severe drought in the northern and eastern parts of the country. The L3  was   lifted   in   September   2023.   The   Country   Office   implements   its   programmes   through  partnerships with the Government at the central and subnational levels and with civil society  organizations (CSOs). During the period audited, the Country Office transferred approximately  US$69.9 million in cash to its partners and spent approximately US$29.3 million on programme  supplies. (This represents 47 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, of total expenditure in that  period.) There were several risks around supply management and distribution, and the transfer  of cash to implementing partners. The audit therefore sought to determine whether and how the  Country Office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI  concluded that the assessed governance, risk  management or control processes were   Partially  Satisfactory, Improvement Needed , meaning  that assessed governance, risk management or  control processes were generally adequate and  functioning but needed improvement (see the  Appendix   for   definitions   of   the   conclusion  ratings .)  Summary of Observations   and Recommended Actions  OIAI noted several areas where UNICEF Kenya Country Office controls were adequate and  functioned well:     Structural alignment and tone at the top:   The Country Office structure and capacity  were   generally   aligned   with   programmatic   and   operational   needs,   and   a   detailed  accountability framework was collaboratively developed in 2021 to clarify roles and  responsibilities. Management's focus on UNICEF values, ethics, and staff wellbeing, as  observed   in   audit   interviews,   confirmed   their   engagement   in   promoting   a   positive  organizational culture. This demonstrates a commitment to both operational efficiency and  a   supportive work environment,   fostering a culture of accountability   and employee  wellbeing, essential for organizational success.  1   L3 is the highest level of the United Nations’ three-tiered classification system for humanitarian emergencies,  signifying a large-scale humanitarian crisis that requires a coordinated response.  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory, Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4     Results and monitoring:   Country Office activities were guided by a generally well-  defined results framework, with the theory of change and hierarchy of results clearly  outlined. The Country Office implemented a broad and diverse range of oversight and  assurance activities, with good coverage of programmes and programmatic inputs. During  audit interviews, key partners commended the Country Office for the regular and thorough  monitoring visits conducted by its staff. Monitoring activities were further supported by  enhanced data analytics for identification of quality issues and gaps in programmatic  assurance. This reflects a structured and proactive approach to programme planning and  monitoring, ensuring that programmes are effectively implemented and aligned with  strategic objectives.     Procurement process:   The procurement planning process was generally adequate,  involving both operational and programmatic actors and incorporating regular follow-ups.  The collaborative approach to procurement provided some assurance that programme  inputs were properly assessed and delivered efficiently and in a timely manner. Based on  the scope of work undertaken, nothing came to our attention that would lead us to believe  that control processes around procurement were not adequate and effective.     Logistics management:   Conditions in the UNICEF warehouse in Nairobi were found to  be adequate and the logistics process was well managed. The Country Office ensured  that there was effective oversight of the distribution of key supplies to regional/county  partners through provision of financial and technical support to implementing partners.  The Country Office also leveraged its access to national logistics systems to obtain a real-  time overview of the distribution and availability of key commodities. These measures  demonstrated commitment to efficiency and transparency in supply chain management,  which are crucial for timely and effective delivery of supplies to beneficiaries.  The audit team also made a number of   observations   related to the management of the key risks  evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:     Quality Assurance section:   The transfer of financial transaction processing activities  from the Finance section to the Quality Assurance (QA) section, which also handled risk  management and internal oversight, has led to workload challenges, inefficiencies and  process delays that impacted operational and programmatic performance, in particular in  relation to cash transfer processing. Moreover, the QA section was responsible for both  processing and overseeing transactions, and responsibilities for operational execution and  monitoring were not adequately separated to mitigate the risk of fraud and error in the  Country   Office’s   financial   processing   activities.   There   was   also   a   risk   that   some  programme staff no longer felt accountable for the quality and accuracy of information  provided to the QA section or had insufficient skills or understanding of their role in the  overall process, thereby increasing the risk of inefficient or inaccurate processing. There  was a need for a comprehensive review of the organization and resourcing of this section  to improve operational effectiveness and risk management.  Fraud risk management : The Country Office identified key fraud risks such as misuse of  resources and misappropriation of supplies; however, they did not assess all types of  potential fraudulent conduct such as recruitment fraud or collusion. Furthermore, risk  discussions did not extend to all staff who might have relevant insights to inform fraud risk  assessment   and   management.   Despite   initiatives   to   raise   awareness   among  implementing partners, there was a gap in some partners’ understanding of UNICEF’s

5  fraud reporting procedures, potentially leading to unmitigated fraud risks, which might  impact programmatic and financial integrity.     Cash transfers to implementing partners : The audit team noted frequent low-value  direct cash transfers, spending in respect of expired grants, and discrepancies between  the requested cash transfers and the subsequent reporting by partners. These issues  stem primarily from weaknesses in partners’ financial management capacity and internal  processes. The issues highlight the need for the Country Office to ensure that established  internal controls related to cash transferred to partners are consistently and rigorously  applied   to   mitigate   the   risk   of   fund   mismanagement   or   delays   in   programme  implementation, which might negatively impact programme effectiveness and stakeholder  trust.  The table below summarizes the key agreed actions to address the residual risks identified and  the ratings of those risks and observations with respect to the assessed governance, risk  management and control processes. (See the   definitions of the observation ratings   in the  Appendix.) For all other areas within the audit scope, no deficiencies in the governance, risk  management or control processes evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  OBSERVATION   RATING  Category of  Process   Area or Operation and Key Agreed Action   Rating  Governance  Role of Quality Assurance section (Observation 1) : Review and  redesign the structure and resources of the Quality Assurance section  to   separate   transaction   processing   from   oversight   functions   and  reduce duplication; Enhance staff training on VISION processes and  evaluate the new structure's effectiveness at Country Programme  Cycle milestones for continuous improvement.  Medium  Risk management  Fraud risk management (Observation 2) : Improve the current fraud  risk management processes by broadening staff involvement and  ensuring all forms of fraud, corruption, and misconduct are thoroughly  considered; strengthen anti-fraud measures related to key service  providers, vendors, contractors and beneficiaries.  Medium  Control  processes  Cash   transfers   to   implementing   partners   (Observation   3) :  Implement a mechanism with partners to streamline cash transfer  requests, while developing a capacity-building programme for partners  with limited financial management.  Medium  HACT   assurance   (Observation   4) :   Strengthen   financial   HACT  assurance completion process and enhance training and supervision  to ensure timely completion, documentation and closure of high-priority  observations with supporting documents in eTools.  Medium  Service contracts (Observation 5):   Ensure involvement of relevant  staff in developing service contract terms and provide mandatory  PSEA training for all personnel on UNICEF-funded projects.  Medium  Civil Society Organization (CSO) partnerships (Observation 6):  Establish contingency Programme Documents for emergencies and  finalize   bottleneck   analysis   in   document   processing   to   improve  efficiency and preparedness.  Medium

6  Supply distribution and supply end-user monitoring (Observation  7):   Implement a standardized supply end-user monitoring approach,  explore   and address supply quality issues,   and enhance   partner  warehouse assessments and capacity-building in warehousing and  logistics.  Medium  Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (Observation 8):  Integrate   PSEA   risk   assessments   into   the   office-wide   risk  management   and   emergency   preparedness   and   response   plans;  Implement, monitor and follow up PSEA action plans and points  resulting from assessments and assurance activities.  Medium  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk  management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit.  The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk  management and control processes.

CONTEXT  7  Kenya is a lower middle-income country with a population of approximately 47.6 million people,  the majority residing in rural areas. Notably, 46 per cent of the population, or approximately 21.9  million people, are under the age of 18. This youthful demographic poses both opportunities and  challenges for the country's development, particularly in terms of education and employment.  Kenya   has   been   hosting   refugees   since   the  1960s,   with   more   than   555,000   registered  refugees and asylum seekers as of June 2022,  mainly women and children. The country also  faces significant climate-related events, such as  recurring floods and droughts, particularly in arid  and semi-arid areas, leading to food insecurity,  malnutrition, illness and livelihood disruptions.  Health concerns include high child and maternal  mortality   rates,   HIV   infections,   and   the  persistence   of   preventable   diseases   among  children in certain regions.  Kenya’s   education   system   has   progressed  significantly,   with   improved   enrolment   rates,  more primary schools, and improved teacher-  pupil ratios. However, a significant number of  children   remain   out   of   school   and   learning  outcomes are below average national scores.  Child   protection   issues,   including   violence  against children, are a concern, and the COVID-  19 pandemic has exacerbated mental health-  related stigmatization.  The UNICEF Country Programme Document for Kenya 2022-2026 outlines key strategies and  goals across several critical areas:     Under ‘Survive and Thrive’, the focus is on reducing neonatal, child, adolescent and  maternal mortality, morbidity and malnutrition, with an emphasis on transitioning to a  broader agenda that includes integrated early childhood development interventions.     In ‘Education and Learning’, the aim is to transform the quality of education and learning,  ensuring access to safe, inclusive and quality learning opportunities.     The ‘Child Protection’ component is dedicated to preventing and responding to all forms  of violence against children, including female genital mutilation and child marriage, with a  particular focus on adolescent girls.     ‘Social Policy’ aims to reduce multidimensional child poverty and strengthen household  resilience to shocks, focusing   on data quality, public   financial management, social  protection systems and child-focused social sector development.     ‘Programme Effectiveness’ ensures that the country programme is effectively managed  and   monitored,   emphasizing   risk-informed   programming,   emergency   preparedness,

8  social and behavioural change, gender-transformative approaches and advocacy for child  rights, as well as cross-cutting issues such as climate change and disability inclusion.  The expenditure by programme outcome for the audit period (from 1 January 2022 to 9 November  2023), is shown in Figure 1 below. Analysis of the total expenditure of US$139.1 million for this  period shows that the key programme interventions were Survive and Thrive (61 per cent of the  budget), Programme Effectiveness (14 per cent), and Education and Learning (11 per cent).  Figure 1: Programme spending by outcome: 1 January 2022 - 9 November 2023  Figure 2: Country Office expenditure by type: 1 January 2022 - 9 November 2023  Figure 2 provides a breakdown of the Country Office expenditure by type, for the same period.  The risk areas covered in the audit include three of the four most significant expenditure  84.56  19.68  15.97  10.00  8.33  0.61  SURVIVE AND THRIVE  PROGRAMME EFFECTIVENESS  EDUCATION AND LEARNING  CHILD PROTECTION  SOCIAL POLICY  OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS  Figure 1: Utilization by Outcome, 2022 -November 2023  US$ Million  69.87  4.83  3.85  9.47  21.82  29.31  Cash Transfers  General Operating Expense  Other Costs  Service Contracts  Staff Costs  Supplies  Utilization by Cost Category, 2022 -November 2023  US$ Million

9  categories: Cash Transfers, Supplies and Service Contracts. Staff Costs were excluded from the  audit scope due to the high degree of centralization and standardization in the administration and  management of staff-related costs across the organization. No significant residual risk related to  staff costs was identified at the Country Office level during the preliminary audit review and  planning.  The Country Office is headquartered in Nairobi and has a decentralized presence in Garissa,  Lodwar and Kisumu. It currently has 196 posts. It also serves as the back office for the UNICEF  Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office.

AUDIT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND APPROACH  10  The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the  governance, risk management and control processes across a selection of significant risk areas  of the Kenya Country Office, including fraud risk management, social cash transfers, cash transfer  assurance, service contracts, supply and logistics management, construction management,  accountability to affected populations and protection from sexual exploitation and abuse.  The scope of the audit included the areas set out in the following table, selected during the audit  planning process based on an assessment of inherent risks. 2   The table below briefly describes  the inherent risks in relation to the specific areas covered in the audit.  RISK AREA   KEY INHERENT RISKS EVALUATED DURING THE AUDIT  Fraud Risk Management  The Country Office may not adequately identify and assess the risks of fraud  and misconduct to its programmes nor take sufficient measures to mitigate  these risks.  Contracts for Services  Inadequate procurement and management of service contracts may result  in non-delivery of agreed-upon services, which can result in financial loss,  inadequate   value-for-money,   operational   disruption   or   damage   to  reputation.  Programme Supply  Supplies may not be adequately managed to ensure their use for intended  purposes, leading to loss of resources, non-achievement of results and  reputational risk.  Partnership Management  (CSOs)  Inadequate partner selection, insufficient capacity building and ineffective  partner administration may lead to programme inefficiencies, suboptimal  outcomes and a misalignment with UNICEF's mission and objectives.  HACT Assurance   The Country Office may not have adequate assurance that cash transfers  made to implementing partners were used for their intended purposes.  DCTs  Cash   transferred   to   implementing   partners   may   not   be   properly  administered and utilized, carrying the inherent risk of mismanagement,  fraud,   or   misuse of   funds,   which can   undermine   effective   monitoring,  jeopardize UNICEF's mission, and harm its reputation.  Humanitarian/Social  Cash Transfers  Inadequate management and monitoring of social cash transfers may lead  to the incorrect identification and selection of eligible beneficiaries and  failure to ensure timely, accurate payments to the intended recipients.  PSEA  Measures may not be adequate to mitigate the risk of beneficiaries, partners  and staff being exposed to sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA), and of SEA  incidents not being reported, with potential reputational or legal implications  for the Country Office.  Programme Planning  Inadequate assessment of needs, stakeholder engagement and resource  allocation may result in programme interventions that do not effectively  address the targeted issues or communities and may be constrained by  resources allocated.  Programme (Field)  Monitoring  Insufficient data collection, analysis and timely and regular monitoring may  result   in   a   lack   of   feedback   and   decision-making   for   programme  adjustments,   potentially   affecting   the   programme's   impact   and  effectiveness.  Results Reporting  Inaccurate   or   incomplete   reporting   may   compromise   transparency,  accountability   and   UNICEF's   ability   to   demonstrate   the   impact   of   its  programmes to stakeholders.  2   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no action, including internal  control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be should the  adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control processes.

11  The audit was conducted through remote preparatory interviews with Country Office management  and an on-site visit from 15 to 30 November 2023, in conformance with the International  Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. For the purpose of audit testing, the  audit covered the period from 1 January 2022 to 30 November 2023 and involved a combination  of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data analytics, document review, tests of  transactions, evaluations and validation of preliminary observations.

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  12  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Role of the Quality Assurance section   Medium  The centralization of transaction processing activities in the Country Office’s Quality Assurance  section has led to inefficiencies and bottlenecks that impacted operational and programmatic  performance and blurred the lines between operational execution and oversight, potentially  compromising effective risk management and internal control.  The Country Office’s Quality Assurance (QA) section was established several years ago to  improve the efficiency and risk mitigation of financial transaction processing. During audit  planning, Country Office management expressed concerns that this centralization, while efficient  in some respects, has led to unintended consequences, including duplication of effort, for example  in verification of cash transfers to implementing partners, by both programme and QA staff. The  shift of transaction processing from the Finance Section to the QA section also led to management  concerns that some programme staff no longer felt accountable for the quality and accuracy of  information provided to the QA section or had insufficient skills or understanding of their role in  the overall process, thereby increasing the risk of inefficient or inaccurate processing. While the  recently appointed Deputy Representative Operations was planning to address these concerns,  Country Office management decided to await the conclusions of this internal audit before taking  action.  The audit confirmed that the transfer of financial processing activities from the Finance section to  the QA section has led to several operational challenges. The additional responsibilities of the QA  section have created workload challenges and bottlenecks, particularly in the processing of cash  transfers. This has resulted in delays in processing transactions, notably in Direct Cash Transfers  (DCTs), which are critical for timely programme implementation. There was also duplication of  some verification steps that were also conducted at the programme level. Moreover, the  centralization of financial transaction processing increased the risk that programme staff might  lack the knowledge and sense of accountability necessary for them to ensure timely provision of  the correct information required by the QA section for transaction processing.  The QA section was responsible for both processing and overseeing financial transactions.  However, responsibilities for execution and monitoring were not adequately separated to mitigate  the risk of fraud and error in the Country Office’s financial processing activities. Segregation of  incompatible duties ensures that no individual or group of individuals is in a position both to  perpetrate and to conceal errors or fraud in the normal course of their duties. Maintaining clear  segregation between operational processes and oversight functions is one means of mitigating  the risk of fraud or unintentional error and ensuring the integrity of processes.  These observations indicated a need for a thorough review of the remit, structure and resourcing  of the QA section, to ensure effective and efficient performance and oversight of the tasks for  which it is currently responsible.  AGREED ACTIONS 1  The Country Office agrees to:

13  i.   Review and redesign, as necessary, the organizational structure and resource  allocation for the performance and oversight of tasks currently assigned to the QA  section, to achieve   a more cost-effective, efficient   solution that   respects core  principles of internal control and risk management: This should include separating  the processing of VISION transactions from the oversight and risk management  functions and eliminating any unnecessary duplication of effort, while maintaining the  necessary level of scrutiny and control over transactions.  ii.   Enhance training of relevant programme staff on VISION processes to improve their  understanding of and ability to fulfil their accountabilities for financial management.  iii.   Review the effectiveness of the new structure and processes at key Country  Programme Cycle milestones to identify areas for improvement.  Staff Responsible:   Quality Assurance and Finance Section  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  2. Fraud risk management   Medium  While the Country Office had established measures to identify and mitigate key fraud risks, there  were opportunities to further strengthen its approach to preventing, detecting and responding to  fraud. These include consideration of all activities that are susceptible to fraud, involving a wider  spectrum of staff in the fraud risk assessment, and enhancing efforts to raise awareness of  implementing partners and other external stakeholders of UNICEF’s fraud reporting procedures.  The Kenya Country Office operates in a challenging environment, which necessitates strong  commitment to the systematic prevention, detection and response to fraud and misconduct in all  its forms, in line with UNICEF's anti-fraud strategy.  The audit assessed control processes and activities in the key risk areas set out in the audit scope  and objectives. Weaknesses identified and recommendations are included in each relevant  observation in this report. The audit team also evaluated the capacity, structure and governance  of   the   Country   Office’s   fraud   risk   management   activities,   including   staff   and   stakeholder  communication and training, fraud risk assessment and the monitoring of appropriate mitigating  controls, as well as the establishment and application of procedures for reporting allegations or  suspicions of fraud or misconduct. The following observations were made regarding those areas:  Risk register:   While the Country Office’s risk register included actions to mitigate key fraud risks  such as misuse of resources and misappropriation of supplies, it did not cover the full spectrum  of activities that are susceptible to fraud. For example, during the audit, concerns were expressed  by management and staff about the risk of recruitment fraud and collusion, but these were not  specifically identified in the risk register. This failure to identify all possible risks related to possible  fraud means that the Country Office may be exposed to risks that have not been properly  assessed or mitigated.  Risk assessment process : Accountabilities for risk management were clearly defined. The  overall risk assessment process was conducted primarily at the management level, with input  from risk focal points. However, with respect to fraud risk identification, there was a missed  opportunity to strengthen engagement with those staff specifically involved in key monitoring and  assurance activities, who are well placed to provide the most complete view possible of fraud  risks across all operational and programmatic activities. This would ensure that all critical

14  vulnerabilities are assessed and adequate mitigating actions implemented. Frontline staff often  have critical insights and perspectives on potential fraud risks that might be omitted when risk  assessment does not include their inputs.  Training and communication:   While the rate of completion by staff of mandatory fraud-related  training was high, among key external stakeholders – for example, implementing partners,  beneficiaries, vendors and contractors – there were gaps in training and dissemination of  information regarding UNICEF’s fraud reporting procedures. This was due to a focus on priorities  other than fraud, especially humanitarian emergencies. Without a clear understanding of how to  report suspicions related to UNICEF's funding and supplies, these key stakeholders may fail to  detect or report fraud, thereby hindering the Country Office's fraud risk management efforts.  AGREED ACTIONS 2  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Improve current fraud risk management processes by ensuring inputs are received  from all relevant staff and assess all relevant instances of possible fraud, corruption,  and misconduct, including financial fraud, asset misappropriation, bribery, conflicts  of interest, and unethical behaviour, ensuring a targeted approach to managing these  risks.  ii.   Strengthen   anti-fraud   measures   related   to   key   service   providers,   vendors,  contractors and beneficiaries, including distribution of fraud-related information and  UNICEF’s reporting requirements.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Operations; Communication, Advocacy and  Partnerships; Social and Behavioural Change; Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation; and  Quality Assurance Sections  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  3. Cash transfers to implementing partners   Medium  The audit team noted frequent low-value direct cash transfers, inefficient cash handling by some  partners, inconsistencies between partners’ cash requests and financial reporting, and spending  on   expired   grants.   These   issues   stem   primarily   from   weaknesses   in   partners’   financial  management capacity and internal processes. However, they highlight the need for the Country  Office to ensure that essential internal controls over cash transferred to partners are consistently  and rigorously applied, to mitigate the risk of fund mismanagement or delays in programme  implementation.  Country Offices are expected to adhere to UNICEF policies and procedures governing cash  transfers to implementing partners, including careful review and prompt processing of FACE 3  forms, to ensure timely disbursement of funds to partners for authorized programme activities.  During the audited period, the Country Office disbursed a total of US$56.3 million to 176 partners,  including 132 government organizations and 44 civil society organizations (CSOs), with a  significant portion (US$43.2 million, or 77 per cent) executed through direct cash transfers (DCT).  3   Funding Authorization and Certification of Expenditure (FACE)

15  The audit assessed the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls to safeguard against  unauthorized, inaccurate or inefficient DCT transactions. All 16 FACE forms (with a total value of  US$ 7.45 million) reviewed by the audit team were found to be complete and supported by the  necessary Itemized Cost Estimate. However, the audit team also noted the following issues:  Low-value transactions:   The audit team identified a pattern of low-value DCTs to government  implementing partners, with frequent small cash requests processed within short timeframes. For  example, in the third quarter of 2023, one government partner made 19 DCT requests with an  average transaction amount of US$11,760. This is indicative of poor planning or coordination by  the partners. High levels of low-value transactions increase the administrative burden and  likelihood of unintentional error.  Reporting inconsistencies:   The audit team identified discrepancies between the requested  DCTs and subsequent reporting by partners. Four of the 16 FACE forms examined showed  discrepancies between the agreed timeframe for utilization of DCTs recorded in the cash requests  and the actual timeframe reported by partners. Some expenditure was made outside the specified  periods. This calls into question the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting by partners, as  well as the adequacy of UNICEF’s review and validation of FACE forms.  Spending in respect of expired grants:   The audit team noted one DCT for US$276,700,  released under a grant that was set to expire within three months. Due to unforeseen challenges  during implementation, spending of the cash advances continued until project completion, ten  months after grant expiry. This use of allocated funds on an expired grant indicates a need for  closer monitoring of grant timelines and better contingency planning to accommodate potential  delays in project implementation and to ensure compliance with grant conditions.  Implementation delays:   The audit team identified two cases of delays in the implementation of  programme activities, contrary to the agreed-upon periods in the FACE forms. Not adhering to  the specified timelines increases the risk of failure to achieve programme goals.  The above observations highlight the challenges faced by UNICEF in working with implementing  partners with inadequate financial management capacity or weak internal processes. One  implementing partner which received DCTs amounting to US$334,597 did not have staff with  appropriate financial management competence, due to budgetary constraints. These issues can  lead to inefficient, error-prone DCT processing, poor financial oversight, insecure cash handling  and delays in programme implementation. Ultimately, these financial management challenges  heighten   the   risk   of   delays   in   programme   implementation,   potentially   resulting   in   missed  objectives, reputational harm and reduced trust by stakeholders.  AGREED ACTIONS 3  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Develop   and   implement   measures   to   support   partners   in   coordinating   and  consolidating cash requests to reduce the administrative workload for all parties. This  might   involve,   for   example,   setting   fixed   deadlines   for   cash   transfer   request  submissions or assisting partners in developing streamlined workflow guidance.  Measures could be developed and piloted with one partner, and the results used to  support their wider roll-out.

16  ii.   Develop and implement a capacity-building programme for partners with limited  financial management capacity as part of the regular programmatic interventions,  including tailored training sessions to enhance their financial management practices.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Operations; Quality Assurance; Finance;  Programme Sections  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  4. HACT assurance activities   Medium  There were delays in finalizing cash transfer assurance and monitoring activities and deficiencies  in creating and following up action points. These challenges may compromise financial integrity  and accountability in programme implementation.  Under the HACT framework, UNICEF Country Offices are required to carry out assurance  activities   to   ensure the proper   use   of   cash transfers   by   implementing   partners,   including  programme monitoring, spot checks and audits. The HACT framework also requires timely,  complete and accurate follow-up of financial findings.  During the audited period, the Country Office completed 454 programme visits, 181 spot checks,  and 18 audits, meeting the minimum risk-based HACT assurance activity requirements. The audit  team assessed the Country Office’s planning, execution, quality assurance and follow-up of HACT  assurance activities. The following observations were noted:  Timeliness of finalization of assurance activities:   The audit team reviewed a sample of 10  audit reports and found that the Country Office took more than four months to finalize four of them;  one was still not complete, despite being submitted to the partner in March 2022. Seven of 13  spot checks reviewed by the audit team were still in draft status in November 2023, of which four  had been pending for more than a year. Discussions with the Country Office management  revealed that some partners resisted signing off on the draft reports, particularly when ineligible  expenses were identified. These delays and issues in finalization of assurance activities may be  partly explained by the limited involvement by senior personnel in the Country Office’s follow-up  efforts with partners. Late completion of HACT assurance activities can impact the timely  resolution of financial discrepancies and the overall effectiveness of financial oversight of cash  transferred to partners.  Creation and follow-up of action points:   As at 30 November 2023, the Country Office had  outstanding ineligible expenses totalling approximately US$572,200 from spot checks and audits,  some of which dated back to 2021. Despite the Country Office's practice of tracking open financial  findings on a weekly basis, the audit team noted deficiencies in the formulation and recording of  action points. For example, some action points were not clearly stated in programme visit reports  or adequately recorded in eTools for follow-up. The audit team also identified a lack of follow-up  of assurance activities from five spot checks and two audits, with actions remaining unresolved  at the time of the audit. There were instances where follow-up actions marked as completed in  the system lacked the requisite supporting documentation. The observations indicate a need for  training   on   action   point   formulation,   recording   and   follow-up,   as   well   as   more   consistent  supervision and oversight.

17  Inadequate processes to ensure timely and complete follow-up of action points from HACT  assurance activities may limit the Country Office’s ability to resolve financial discrepancies and  effectively engage with partners, jeopardizing financial integrity and accountability in programme  implementation.  AGREED ACTIONS 4  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Implement measures that ensure prompt completion of financial HACT assurance  activities, to enable timely corrective measures.  ii.   Ensure that all high-priority assurance activity observations are developed and  documented   in   assurance   activity   reports,   and   that   action   point   closure   is  accompanied   by   supporting   documents   in   eTools,   including   through   improved  internal training and supervision.  Staff Responsible:   Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation; Quality Assurance; Finance  Sections  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  5. Service contracts   Medium  Failure to involve the Human Resources (HR) section in development of terms of reference for a  contract to provide HR services created legal, operational and SEA risks related to supplementary  personnel hired through an external firm to perform essential programme activities.  During the audit period, the Country Office issued US$18 million in service contracts, including  project management, transport and storage, construction, and evaluation services.  All country offices are required to follow the UNICEF procedures for the procurement and  management of third-party services, which include ensuring that service contracts are aligned  with programme needs, and that procurement processes reflect value-for-money, integrity,  transparency and fairness. For higher-value contracts, bids must undergo ethical and financial  evaluations and are subject to review by the Contract Review Committee (CRC).  The audit team reviewed a sample of service contracts and assessed the adequacy of internal  controls related to procurement, monitoring, performance evaluation and contract closure. Based  on the work conducted, the following observations were noted:  During the audit period, the Country Office entered into four contracts with an HR consultancy  firm, for a total of US$715,264, for the provision and management of sanitation extenders  (individuals assigned to the national and county governments to support sanitation and hygiene  activities). In reviewing two of those contracts, the audit team noted that the Country Office’s HR  section was appropriately involved in the technical evaluation phase of the procurement process.  However, the HR section was not asked to provide input to the terms of reference for the contract  before it was advertised on the United Nations Global Marketplace. As the technical evaluation of  bids for service contracts is based heavily on the approved terms of reference, its review and  clearance by appropriately qualified staff is essential to ensure inclusion of all relevant criteria. In

18  this case, the HR section’s input would have ensured identification and mitigation of key  recruitment and HR-related risks, for example, through background checks and code of conduct  and training requirements.  The audit team noted that certain risks, such as the potential recruitment of unethical or  unqualified individuals by the HR firm, were not adequately addressed by the CRC process. There  was no evidence of oversight by Country Office staff of the HR firm's management of the sanitation  extenders, for example, to ensure completion of background checks and full payment of their  rightful compensation. The audit team also observed that the extenders did not receive essential  training on Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse, despite their direct engagement with  beneficiaries.  These findings may be attributable to the unique nature of the service contract, but they highlight  the need for enhanced coordination and due diligence in the management of HR-related  contracts, in particular with respect to engagement of personnel in essential programme activities,  to mitigate the risk of legal and operational issues and of misconduct or harm to beneficiaries.  AGREED ACTIONS 5  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Ensure that relevant staff are involved in the development of terms of reference for  service contracts prior to advertisement of the request for proposals, to ensure  technical input   and assessment   and mitigation   of contractual risks during   the  procurement process and the ongoing contract management.  ii.   Ensure mandatory PSEA training is provided to all individuals recruited to support  UNICEF-funded projects.  Staff Responsible:   Supply & Logistics manager; PSEA Specialist; Programme Sections  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  6. Civil Society Organization (CSO) partnerships   Medium  The audit team identified a very high number of CSO partners that were directly selected or  retained and also noted delays in signing partner agreements and in disbursing cash, as well as  inconsistent use of eTools to upload partner progress reports for assessment of performance and  programme results.   These   issues   increased   the   risk   of   delayed   or   inefficient   programme  implementation and reduced the opportunities for the Country Office to explore new more cost-  effective, innovative partnerships to improve overall programme effectiveness.  UNICEF procedures require open and competitive methods for selection of CSO partners and  provide benchmarks for the timely establishment of programme documents. Partners are required  to submit progress reports and a final report, outlining their experience, strategies for sustaining  results, and plans for use of any remaining resources. In the period under review, the Country  Office collaborated with 44 CSOs, which received a total of US$31.4 million in cash and supplies.  The audit team reviewed the alignment of Country Office's partnership processes with the  UNICEF procedures, assessing the effectiveness of its partnership strategy, partner selection,

19  performance monitoring, and end-of-partnership reviews. The following observations were noted,  based on the work conducted:  CSO Selection Process:   Ninety-one per cent of CSOs (or 32 of 35 partners engaged during the  period under review) were directly chosen or retained. Although some partnerships were initiated  to respond to the urgent needs of emergency programmes, there were instances where a CSO  partnership was extended beyond the maximum permitted 24-month period, without review. In  emergency situations, pre-established contingency Programme Documents with partners provide  Country Offices with alternative partnership options, based on competitive selection processes  and ensuring preparedness and programme efficiency.  Delays in Signing Programme Documents:   There were delays in signing agreements with  CSOs. Four Programme Documents were signed on average 15 working days after the 45-day  Key Performance Indicator (KPI) and nine Simplified Programme Documents on average 24 days  after the 15-day KPI. Several factors contributed to these delays, including protracted preparation  and review times, as well as the need for capacity building. Delays in formalizing partnership  agreements may also delay the start of the project activities, potentially compromising overall  programme efficiency and outcomes.  Use of eTools for Reporting:   The audit team found that partner reports were not systematically  uploaded to eTools. Partners did not upload 29 Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs), as required,  and 30 completed partnership reviews between 2022 and 2023 were not available in eTools. For  five partnerships ending after March 2023, final QPRs were missing, contrary to UNICEF  procedures for programme closure. This inconsistent uploading of partner reports to eTools was  due to delayed adoption of the ePD system by both partners and the office, coupled with  inconsistencies in record-keeping practices, leading to some reports being uploaded while others  remained on individual staff members' desktops. This absence of complete reporting information  in the corporate system creates a risk that decisions will be based on inaccurate, unreliable  assessments of partnership performance and programme results.  Disbursement Delays to CSOs:   There were delays in disbursing cash transfers to CSOs in four  of nine Programme Documents reviewed by the audit team. This was caused by such factors as  delays   in   signing   Programme   Documents,   UNICEF's   Quality   Assurance   and   verification  processes, and unresolved liquidation matters. One CSO reported a one-month delay in receiving  cash   disbursements,   which   stemmed   from   delays   in   the   signing   of   specific   Programme  Documents. Such situations may compel partners to fund UNICEF programme activities from  other sources and to seek reimbursement. However, where delays in financial disbursements  result in cashflow challenges for CSOs, this may impact the timely execution and overall  effectiveness of programme activities.  AGREED ACTIONS 6  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Establish   contingency   Programme   Documents   for   anticipated   emergency  programmes, to facilitate competitive partner selection and ensure preparedness.  ii.   Finalize the analysis of bottlenecks in Programme Document processing, and  implement   corrective   measures   to   eliminate   bottlenecks   to   enhance   process  efficiency.

20  Staff Responsible:   Chief of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation  Implementation Date:   31 October 2024  7. Supply distribution and supply end-user monitoring   Medium  The audit team noted inconsistent supply end-user monitoring, quality concerns, and a lack of  follow-up   of   warehouse   assessments.   These   issues   heighten   the   risk   of   inefficiency,  compromised supply quality, and potential service delivery gaps, which may erode beneficiary  trust and reduce programme effectiveness.  Supplies constituted approximately 20 per cent of the Country Office's total resource utilization  and amounted to approximately US$30 million in the period under review. Between January 2022  and November 2023, the Country Office delivered supplies worth US$12 million directly to 33  implementing partners and US$77,000 worth of supplies to 94 schools. In the same period, the  Country Office issued supplies valued at US$20 million to 99 implementing partners from its  warehouses. As at 30 November 2023, supplies valued at US$320,000 were stored in the Country  Office’s two warehouses.  The audit evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of controls over supply and logistics  management, to ensure the timely distribution of the expected quantity and quality of supplies to  the intended beneficiaries. The following observations requiring management attention were  noted, based on the work conducted:  Supply End-user Monitoring (SEUM):   The UNICEF procedure (dated 4 October 2022 but with  full implementation expected by 1 April 2024) mandates rigorous end-user monitoring.   The audit  team noted inconsistent application of SEUM in the programmatic monitoring framework. Despite  the inclusion of a dedicated supplies section in the 2023 programmatic monitoring template, its  use varied across programmatic visits. In eight of ten project monitoring visit reports with a supply  component, comments on supplies were recorded but lacked detail on the scope, methodology  and specifics of the monitoring, for example, the type, quantity and value of supplies and whether  the monitoring was at facility or beneficiary level. Observations, recommendations and action  points were not systematically recorded in the corporate management system (eTools) for follow-  up and oversight. These inconsistent practices were indicative of a need to enhance staff  awareness and internal communication, and to clarify accountabilities for SEUM and its oversight,  to ensure that these activities are appropriately resourced and prioritized.  Quality of Supplies:   Concerns about the quality of supplies were raised by beneficiaries during  audit field visits, with two instances of low-quality supplies being demonstrated. Beneficiary  dissatisfaction with supply quality was also noted in three of ten sampled project monitoring visits,  including a case questioning whether the provided equipment was fit for the intended purpose.  However, the audit team’s review of controls related to the technical specification, receipt and  inspection of supplies did not result in conclusive evidence of any systemic quality issue, or of the  root cause of these reported issues. Country Office management indicated that these concerns  may be attributable to high beneficiary expectations, mishandling of supplies post-delivery, and a  culture of lodging complaints.  Follow-up   of   Partner   Warehouse   Assessments:   The   Country   Office   had   conducted  assessments of implementing partner warehouses to evaluate the storage conditions for UNICEF-

21  funded inventory and provided recommendations for enhancement to the partners concerned.  However, there was no formal follow-up process, and information on the status of implemented  improvements was not available at the time of audit fieldwork. Subsequent visits by the Country  Office   staff   to   two   partner   warehouses   indicated   that   recommendations   for   significant  improvements from assessments conducted in February 2023 had not been implemented as at  November 2023.  Inconsistent supply end-user monitoring reduces visibility of the critical supply chain ‘last mile’,  which may result in unaddressed gaps in service delivery. Inadequate quality of supplies, whether  from   poor   handling   or   other   causes,   creates   a   risk   of   diminished   beneficiary   trust   and  effectiveness of the Country Office's efforts, as well as reputational risk to UNICEF more broadly.  AGREED ACTIONS 7  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Develop and implement a standardized approach to supply end-user monitoring, to  ensure consistent application across all programmatic visits and systematic recording of  observations, feedback, metrics and action points in eTools: Accountabilities for SEUM  and its oversight should be clearly defined, and any training needs identified.  ii.   Follow up the reported supply quality issues and take specific steps to enhance supply  quality and suitability.  iii.   Implement measures to ensure consistent, adequate follow-up of implementing partner  warehouse assessments and consider extending partner capacity-building measures to  include warehousing/logistics.  Staff Responsible:   Chief of Supply and Logistics; Chief of Planning, Monitoring and  Evaluation  Implementation Date:   31 December 2024  8. Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)   Medium  The Country Office’s risk management activities did not cover SEA-related risks and there was a  lack of planning to respond to PSEA risks in emergency contexts. PSEA action plans were not  consistently monitored or followed up, and there was a need to enhance PSEA measures with  respect to high-risk partnerships. A new PSEA coordinator was appointed in September 2023 to  lead implementation of the necessary improvements in the Country Office's PSEA activities.  The Country Office operates in a context where there are significant challenges related to sexual  violence and gender-based issues, such that measures to protect vulnerable communities from  sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA) are of particular importance.  The audit team assessed whether controls were adequate and operating effectively to ensure that  the risk of SEA within the local context was understood and that sufficient mitigating actions were  planned and implemented. Measures to ensure that all staff, as well as implementing partners,  vendors and consultants that interact directly with vulnerable communities, are equipped to  prevent and respond to SEA and that at-risk communities have access to and are aware of safe

22  reporting channels were reviewed to determine their adequacy. The following observations were  made, based on the audit work conducted:  Absence of SEA-related risk considerations:   There was a lack of evidence to indicate whether  all at-risk communities were considered during the development of the PSEA approach. The  Country Office's risk register did not include any PSEA risks and the preparedness plans for  drought and floods did not identify any context-specific PSEA risks, resulting in the absence of  any PSEA response plan for emergency situations.  Monitoring of PSEA implementation:   Reviewing programme activities for PSEA risks and  mitigation strategies was one of several measures included in Country Office’s PSEA action plan  that were either partially implemented or not addressed at all. The audit team noted that the PSEA  action plan did not include sufficient measures to mitigate PSEA risk in high-risk partnerships.  There were no action plans to address the identified PSEA weaknesses in three of five partners  reviewed. Programmatic visits to five high and moderate PSEA risk partner organizations did not  include follow-up of PSEA action plans, and important action points related to PSEA were not  recorded in eTools for tracking.  Failure   to   adequately   identify   and   mitigate   context-specific   PSEA   risks   and   to   monitor  implementation of PSEA activities by both the Country Office and partners leaves communities  more vulnerable to SEA and exposes UNICEF to increased reputational risk.  Country Office Management acknowledged these issues, which they attributed to a lack of PSEA  capacity during the period under review. In September 2023, a new PSEA Coordinator was  recruited to strengthen the Country Office’s PSEA activities. As at the time of the audit fieldwork,  the Country Office was developing mitigating actions to address the outstanding risks identified  by the audit.  AGREED ACTIONS 8  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Systematically assess, address and monitor PSEA risks for all vulnerable communities,  as part of the Country Office's risk mitigation, emergency preparedness and response  plans.  ii.   Establish a mechanism to ensure timely implementation and monitoring of action plans  resulting from programmatic visits and PSEA assessments conducted by Civil Society  Organizations (CSOs).  iii.   Document PSEA action points from monitoring and assurance activities in eTools for  tracking purposes and ensure appropriate follow-up.  Staff Responsible:   Programme Sections; Chief of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation;  PSEA Specialist; PSEA Task Team  Implementation Date:   31 October 2024

23  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to  each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity,  area, activity or process, or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a potential opportunity for improvement in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low-priority  observations are reported to management during the audit but are not  included   in   the   audit   report.   Action   in   response   to the   observation   is  desirable.  Medium  The   observation relates to a weakness or   deficiency   in the assessed  governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution  within a reasonable period of time to avoid adverse consequences for the  audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires  prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process ,   or for UNICEF as a   whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for  the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement.  The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a  materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity,  area, activity   or   process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  needed   major   improvement.   The   weaknesses   or   deficiencies  identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance  of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were   not   adequately   established   or   not   functioning   well.   The  weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative  impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or  process.  APPENDIX

24  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St.  New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation