# 2024 OIAI Audit Report of the Pakistan Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/1981/file/2024-oiai-pakistan-country-office-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/1981/file/2024-oiai-pakistan-country-office-report.pdf.pdf)

---

0  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  Report on the Internal Audit of the  Pakistan Country Office  JULY 2024  Report 202 4 / 07

CONTENTS  1  Executive Summary ...................................................................................................... 2  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context   ........................................................................................................................... 5  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach ...................................................................... 7  Observations and Management Action Plan .............................................................. 9  1. Staffing and oversight of work at provincial levels  2. Contracts management  3. Cash transfers to government partners through single signatory accounts  4. Supply and inventory management  5. Construction management  6. Programme implementation monitoring  7. Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)  8. Accountability to Affected Populations (AAP)  Appendix   ...................................................................................................................... 18  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  2  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Pakistan Country  Office, covering the period from 1 January 2022 to 15 December 2023.   The audit was conducted  from 14 November 2023 to 15 December 2023 in accordance with the Code of Ethics and the  International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The overarching  objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk  management and control processes over a selection of significant risk areas of the Pakistan  Country Office, including   fraud risk management, third party vendor management, supply and  inventory management, accountability to affected populations, construction management and  programme monitoring. The descriptions of the specific risks evaluated are provided in the Audit  Objective, Scope and Approach section of this report.  The Pakistan Country Office operates in a complex operating environment. During the period  audited, the Country Office expensed approximately US$134.1 million on programme supplies  and US$114.4 million on services, which represented 34 per cent and 29 per cent of total  expenditure, respectively. The Country Office transferred cash of approximately US$92.6 million  to partners for the implementation of the Country Programme. This represented 23 per cent of  total expenditure. There were several risks around supply and logistics, third-party vendor  management and the transfer of cash to implementing partners. The audit therefore sought to  determine whether and how the Country Office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI  concluded that the assessed governance, risk  management or control processes were generally  adequate   and   functioning   but   needed  improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies  identified   were   unlikely   to   have   a   materially  negative   impact   on   the   performance   of   the  audited entity, area, activity or process.  Summary of Observations   and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted several areas where UNICEF Pakistan’s controls were adequate and functioned well:     Fraud awareness raising : The Country Office conducted numerous anti-fraud workshops  and   activities   and   disseminated   communications   on   fraud-related   matters   to   staff,  implementing   partners, suppliers   and   vendors   to   raise awareness.   It   achieved   a   high  completion rate for mandatory staff training courses and developed a protocol guiding actions  in the event of fraud or suspected fraud by UNICEF implementing partners. This helped  increase fraud risk awareness and reinforced UNICEF’s zero tolerance policy on fraud.     Supply planning : Supply planning was timely and there was good collaboration between  sections. The Country Office monitored the effective and efficient implementation of the supply  plans during the audit period. This contributed to timely procurement and receipt of needed  supplies.  The audit team also made a number of   observations   related to the management of the key risks  evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory, Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

3     Contracts management : The Country Office was making advance payments to human  resources (HR) service providers without the required prior approval from the Division of  Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM) and the controls put in place were not  adequate to ensure the accuracy and validity of the payments. The approval from DFAM  involves additional due diligence that ensure effective management of the risk of fraud, waste  and abuse associated with such payments. The audit team also noted that whilst contacts  managers were generally evaluating human resources services providers’ performance, it  was not evident how the results of the evaluations were utilized to improve the quality and  value of services received from the vendors.     Cash transfers to government partners through single signatory accounts : The cash  transfers to some government partners were being made through banks accounts that were  outside of the government financial management and accounting systems, which UNICEF  relies on for the effective management of the transfers. There was thus the unmitigated risk  of fraud, waste and abuse funds UNICEF transferred to those partners.     Supply and inventory management : There were gaps in inventory management and the  end-user monitoring processes, which reduced management’s oversight of and feedback on  the movement of supplies once they were handed over to partners and after they were  received by beneficiaries. This elevated the risk that the Country Office might not be able to  identify and address weaknesses in partners’ supply management and/or the appropriateness  of supplies provided.  The table below summarizes the key actions management has agreed to take to address the  residual risks identified and the ratings of those risks and observations with respect to the  assessed governance, risk management and control processes. (See the   definitions of the  observation ratings   in the Appendix.)  OBSERVATION RATING  Category of Process   Area or Operation and Key Agreed Action   Rating  Control  processes  Contracts management (Observation 2) : Implement appropriate  measures to ensure the required prior approval from DFAM is obtained  for advance payments to increase management of the risk of fraud,  waste, and abuse associate with such payments and the results of  vendors’ performance evaluations are appropriately utilized to improve  the quality and value of services received from the vendors.  High  Cash transfers to government partners through single signatory  accounts (Observation 3) : Take appropriate measures to effectively  manage the risk of fraud, waste and abuse associated with funds  UNICEF transferred to accounts that are not part of the Government  financial management and accounting systems.  High  Supply   and   inventory   management   (Observation   4) :   Enhance  oversight   and   feedback   from   supply   distribution   by   ensuring  warehouse   capacity   assessments   are   conducted   for   all   partners  receiving supplies, distribution plans are in place and monitored,  regular inventory reports are obtained from partners, and that there is  robust tracking and follow up on supply end-user monitoring.  Medium  Construction management (Observation 5) : Establish a complete  and comprehensive tracking mechanism that includes all construction  Medium  ,

4  OBSERVATION RATING  Category of Process   Area or Operation and Key Agreed Action   Rating  activities, whether directly undertaken by the Country Office or through  partners; Utilize the mechanism to ensure all identified operational and  financial construction risks are being managed, there are adequate  measures for quality control and assurance, and that manual trackers  are regularly reconciled with the corporate recording system.  Programme implementation monitoring (Observation 6) : Put in  place a process to ensure that there is a consolidated view of all  programme monitoring activities, while ensuring there is adequate  coordination and oversight over the quality, coverage and risk focus of  monitoring activities and the recording and follow up of high priority  actions arising from the programme monitoring reports; Develop and  implement a strategy or action plan on the use of third party field  monitoring to harmonize the process and ensure objective assurance  over programme activity implementation.  Medium  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk  management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit.  The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk  management and control processes.

CONTEXT  5  Country context and operating environment  The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic negatively impacted the well-being of  children in Pakistan, including through massive learning losses and widened inequities and  gender inequality. Subsequently, Pakistan’s strong post-pandemic recovery came to a halt in  2023 with a series of domestic and external economic shocks. Poverty is estimated to have  increased due to deteriorating wages and job quality, along with high inflation that eroded  purchasing power, particularly for the poor. 1  Pakistan   has   historically   experienced   earthquakes,  floods, droughts and water-scarcity. Climate change,  population pressure and other factors are contributing  to a scarcity of clean water and to elevated disaster  risks and population vulnerabilities.  Although Pakistan has made progress towards the  Sustainable Development Goals through the national  development plan Pakistan 2025: One Nation–One  Vision, millions of children in hard-to-reach rural areas,  urban   areas   with   a   high   density   of   low-income  residents, and in the poorest families are still at risk of  being left behind, especially girls and adolescents.  Children represented 47 per cent of the population of  225 million in 2021. Pakistan has the highest rate of  urbanization in South Asia, with 37 per cent of the  population living in urban areas. This has implications  for service delivery to children living in high density,  low-income and underserved urban areas.  Pakistan hosts 1.4 million registered refugees, and 1.6 million undocumented Afghan nationals.  In October 2023, Pakistan issued a deadline of 31 October (the end of that month) for all ‘illegal’  refugees and migrants to leave, citing security concerns.  With an overall budget of US$916.3 million, the UNICEF 2023-2027 country programme was  structured around six outcome areas: health, nutrition, learning and skills, child protection, water,  sanitation and hygiene, climate change and disaster risk reduction, and social policy and social  protection.  Programme expenditure by outcome for the audit period (1 January 2022 to 15 December 2023)  is shown in Figure 1 below.  1   World Bank Pakistan Overview,   Pakistan: Development news, research, data | World Bank

6  Figure 2 provides a breakdown of the Country Office expenditure by cost category for the same  period. The risk areas covered in the audit include all four major expenditure categories.  At the time of the audit, the Pakistan Country Office had a total of 366 posts. Of these, 167 were  based in the main office in Islamabad and 199 in the field offices in Peshawar, Karachi, Quetta,  Lahore. There were warehouses in Karachi and Peshawar.  46% HEALTH  16% EDUCATION  12% NUTRITION  12% WASH  9% PROGRAMME  EFFECTIVENESS  5% CHILD  PROTECTION  FIGURE 1:   PROGRAMME EXPENSES BY OUTCOME, JANUARY 2022 -  DECEMBER 2023  23% Cash  Transfer  29% Service  Contract  10% Staff Cost  34% Supply  4% Other cost  FIGURE 2:   EXPENDITURE BY COST CATEGORY, JANUARY 2022 -  DECEMBER 2023

AUDIT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND APPROACH  7  The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the  governance, risk management and control processes over a selection of significant risk areas of  the Pakistan Country Office, including   fraud risk management, third party vendor management,  supply   and   inventory   management,   accountability   to   affected   populations,   construction  management and programme monitoring.  The audit scope included key areas, set out in following table, that were selected during the audit  planning process based on an assessment of inherent risks. 2   The table below briefly describes  the inherent risks in relation to the specific areas covered in the audit.  RISK AREA   KEY INHERENT RISKS EVALUATED DURING THE AUDIT  Recruitment and office  structure  High vacancy rates and delays in recruitment for key positions may  impact   the   ability   to   support   programme   implementation   and  achievement of results.  Prevention of Sexual  Exploitation and Abuse  (PSEA)  Adequate measures may not be taken, resulting in exposure of the  affected populations, partners, staff and non-staff to sexual exploitation  and abuse and non-reporting of SEA incidents. Inadequate oversight  over existing grievance and feedback mechanism(s) could impede the  Country Office’s ability to identify gaps in PSEA and to take corrective  action.  Accountability to Affected  Populations (AAP)  Inadequate AAP measures could prevent the affected children and their  families from participating in the decisions that affect their lives.  Third party vendor  management  During the audit period, services amounted to US$53.6 million. The  Country Office relied on a few service providers without sufficient vendor  dependency mitigation measures. The Country Office may not have  adequate control or oversight over third party service providers, which  may result in subpar service delivery.  Supply and Inventory  management  For the period under audit, the Country Office procured approximately  US$134.1 million in supplies. There was a significant increase in the  procurement of supplies due to the emergency response. Inadequate  and uncoordinated supply end-user monitoring may lead to children and  their families not receiving the supplies they need.  Construction management   During the period under audit, the Country Office managed construction  projects totalling US$36.4 million. There were delays in delivery of  construction   projects   owing   to   vendors   being   overburdened   with  numerous concurrent projects, and overreliance on the third party for  supervision of construction projects due to limited in-house capacity.  This   raised   the   risk   of   not   achieving   planned   outputs   related   to  construction.  HACT Assurance   Assurance activities (spot checks, audits and programmatic visits) that  are undertaken as compliance activities and are not risk-based will not  focus on the significant risks and therefore provide insufficient assurance  that cash transfers made to implementing partners were used for their  intended purposes.  2   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including  internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be  should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control  processes.

8  Programme monitoring   The   Country   Office’s   monitoring   plan   did   not   always   ensure   that  significant (programme importance and expenditures) activities were  adequately monitored. There were access restrictions and limitations  due   to   insecurity   and   environmental   hazards,   and   changes   in   key  government officials, which could impede the Country Office’s ability to  effectively implement and monitor programme activities.  Fraud Risk management   There   is   heightened   risk   of   fraud   due   to   economic   debt,   political  instability, and security context. In completed special audits there were  unsupported amounts of US$1.4 million and financial findings amounting  to US$0.6 million. Two special audits were completed in 2023.  The audit was conducted from 14 November 2023 to 15 December 2023 in accordance with the  Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.  For the purpose of audit testing, the audit covered the period from 1 January 2022 to 15 December  2023.   The audit involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews,  data analytics, document review, tests of transactions, evaluations and validation of preliminary  observations.

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  9  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1.   Staffing and oversight of work at provincial levels   Medium  Delays in filling vacancies and lack of clear reporting lines between staff at the provincial levels  and respective heads of the programme sections at Headquarters meant that the risks to the  efficient and effectiveness implementation of programme activities at the provincial levels were  not managed effectively.  In October 2022, as part of the development of the 2023-2027 Country Programme (CP), the  Country Office underwent a Programme Budget Review (PBR), which indicated that the workforce  structure was generally satisfactory and affordable. The Country Office’s 2023-2024 rolling  management plan prioritized people management, with the aim of ensuring the availability of  qualified and diverse talent at the right place and at the right time, with maximum transparency.  The audit team therefore evaluated the controls related to the recruitment process and the  management of the office structure.  Staffing:   The Country Office tracked the various phases of recruitment. The average recruitment  time was 98 days, which was better than the regional average of 127 days. Nevertheless, the  audit team noted that as of December 2023, the Country Office had 75 vacant positions (21 per  cent vacancy rate), including five at managerial level. Audit was not provided any evidence of the  root cause analyses of the delays.  Oversight of work at the provincial levels:   While the bulk of the Country Office’s activities were  executed at the provincial levels, there were no clear reporting lines between the staff at the  provincial levels and respective heads of the programme sections located at the main office in  Islamabad who were ultimately accountable for the results of those activities. This was mainly  because the Country Office had not finalized its accountability framework. The lack of clear  reporting lines elevated the risks that the implementation of programme activities at the provincial  levels were not managed effectively.  AGREED ACTION 1  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Identify and take appropriate actions to minimize further delays in the recruitment  process.  ii.   Finalize its accountability framework with clear reporting lines between key staff at the  provincial levels and respective heads of the programme sections located at the main  office in Islamabad who are ultimately accountable for the results of those activities.  Staff Responsible:   Chief of Human Resources, Chief Field Operations  Implementation Date:   30   November 2024

10  2. Contracts management   High  The Country Office was making advance payments without obtaining the required prior approval  from DFAM. Such approval involves additional due diligence that ensure effective management  of the risk of fraud, waste and abuse associated with such payments. While contacts managers  were generally evaluating HR service providers’ performance, it was not evident how the results  of the evaluations were utilized   to improve the quality and value of services received from the  vendors .  During the audit period, the total cost of services was valued at US$114.4 million, of which 47 per  cent related to HR service providers. The audit team conducted a review of the management of  third-party contracts and noted the following:  Advance payments:   The audit team’s review of 20 contracts for HR services amounting to  US$32 million noted that the Country Office was making advance payments to the contractor  despite the relevant tender documents stating that payments would only be made for services  received. The audit team also noted that the Country Office made advance payments of more  than US$70,000 without the specific approval of the Comptroller required under Financial  Regulation rule 112.6 and the 2015 Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM)  policy on prepayments and advance.  The audit team also found that the way in which payments were processed varied from one  section to another, with differing qualities of due diligence performed. For example, one section  sometimes required the HR services contractor to provide payroll and attendance records of staff,  while other sections did not require such information. Supporting documents for out-of-pocket  expenses were verified on an ad hoc basis and therefore there was inadequate assurance the  expenses were justified.  Vendor performance management :   UNICEF requires the contract manager to evaluate the  vendor’s performance and use the results of such evaluations to implement appropriate measures  to improve the vendor’s performance. While contacts managers were generally evaluating HR  service providers’ performance, it was not evident how the results of the evaluations were utilized  with respect to the HR service providers. There were no mechanisms in place to ensure the results  of vendors’ performance evaluations were appropriately used to improve the quality and value of  services received from the vendors. The audit noted that the Country Office continued to use a  vendor and provide new contracts without confirming that the vendor had made the improvements  and without ensuring that the recommended programmatic and finance review was conducted.  AGREED ACTION 2  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Obtain the requisite approval for advance payments and implement appropriate risk  mitigation measures to manage its financial exposure to third party vendors; review and  harmonize   the   diligence   exercised   during   invoice   processing   to   ensure   there   is  adequate validation of the legitimacy of services provided.  ii.   Establish mechanisms to ensure the results of vendors’ performance evaluations are  appropriately used with the aim of improving the quality and value of services received  from vendors and to inform subsequent contract awards and LTA extensions.

11  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Operations, Administrative & Finance Manager,  Operations Manager, Chief Supply and Logistics  Implementation Date:   30 November 2024  3. Cash transfers to government partners through single  signatory   accounts   High  The cash transfers to some government partners were being made through banks accounts that  were outside of the government financial management and accounting systems, which UNICEF  relies on for the effective management of the transfers. There was thus the unmitigated risk of  fraud, waste and abuse funds UNICEF transferred to those partners.  UNICEF offices should ensure they have sufficient support for the bank information they submit  for payment purposes. For government partners, a letter from the Ministry of Finance or equivalent  is recommended. When the office dealt with does not have a bank account, funds need to be  transferred to the main ministry, which should be defined as the ‘alternative payee.’  During the period under review, the Country Office had 144 government partners who received  US$63.9 million, or 69 per cent of the total cash transfers. Funds were transferred to some of  those partners through ‘designated accounts’ – these were single signatory accounts that were  not part of the government financial management and accounting systems. The Government  could not therefore be held accountable for any losses or misappropriation from those accounts.  The audit team was informed that it is possible to transfer funds to ‘assignment accounts,’ which  are accounts dedicated to specific projects, and are part of the government recording system,  which is subject to audit by the auditor general. OIAI notes that the issue of single signatory  accounts is of recurring concern, having been raised as a high priority action in the 2014 OIAI  audit report and more recently by the Regional Office in November 2022. After the 2014 audit,  the Country Office told OIAI that it had taken steps to ensure all accounts operated with a  minimum of two signatories. However, the Country Office has once again stated that it will  determine the number of partners with single signatory accounts and address the matter. Every  time the Country Office transfers funds into a single signatory account, which is outside the  government’s   systems   of   control,   it   is   exposing   the   organization   to   a   high   risk   of   fund  misappropriation and diversion.  AGREED ACTION 3  The Country Office agrees to take appropriate measures to effectively manage the risk of fraud,  waste and abuse associated with funds UNICEF transferred to accounts that are not part of the  Government financial management and accounting systems.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Operations, Operations Manager  Implementation Date:   30 November 2024

12  4. Supply and Inventory management   Medium  There were gaps in inventory management and the end-user monitoring processes, which  reduced management’s oversight of and feedback on the movement of supplies once they were  handed over to partners and after they were received by beneficiaries. This elevated the risk that  the Country Office might not be able to identify and address weaknesses in partners’ supply  management and/or the appropriateness of supplies provided.  In the period under review, the Country Office procured supplies amounting to US$134.1 million,  or 40 per cent of total expenditures. At the time of the audit, the Country Office had three  warehouses, located in Karachi and Peshawar, with an inventory balance of US$10.4 million. The  audit team evaluated the controls related to supply and logistics planning, warehousing and  inventory management and distribution of supplies to partners and beneficiaries, and noted the  following:  Warehousing and distribution:   In the third quarter of 2023, the logistics team conducted  capacity assessments of some partner warehouses, however, the audit team noted that this was  not performed consistently across the partnerships that had a supply component. A review of the  available logistics capacity assessment reports found that they were not finalized, and the findings  were not shared with the respective partners. The Country Office said this was due to conflicting  priorities in the office and inadequate oversight over performance of the assessments. The audit  team also noted that the practice of preparing supply distribution plans was discontinued during  the 2022 flood emergency response. In discussions with two partners, the audit team found  instances of partners receiving supplies beyond the planned quantities. This issue was also raised  in a field visit report, but no follow up actions were taken. The audit team also noted that the  Country Office did not have visibility of supplies once they were delivered to partners and there  was limited reporting by partners on the UNICEF supplies remaining in their warehouses.  Supply end-user monitoring (SEUM):   The audit team reviewed 14 SEUM forms and noted that  the majority were not finalized and therefore any action points identified were not recorded or  followed   up.   The   Country   Office   stated   that   it   had   revised   its SEUM   standard   operating  procedures (SOP) and an orientation on the revised SOP was planned for January 2024.  Gaps in capacity assessments, supply distribution planning and end-user monitoring impedes an  office’s ability to ensure critical supplies consigned to the counterpart are sufficiently safeguarded  from the risk of damage or theft and to obtain and address feedback from beneficiaries on the  appropriateness of supplies received.  AGREED ACTION 4  The Country Office agrees to enhance oversight and feedback from supply distribution by  ensuring that:  i.   warehouse capacity assessments are conducted, as appropriate, for partners receiving  supplies;  ii.   distribution plans are in place and monitored;  iii.   regular inventory reports are obtained from partners; and  iv.   there is robust tracking and follow up on supply end-user monitoring.

13  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Programme, Chief Supply and Logistics, Chief  Planning Monitoring & Data  Implementation Date:   31 October 2024  5. Construction management   Medium  At the time of the audit, there were 991 construction projects, implemented directly and through  partners. There was a need for the Country Office to strengthen oversight over the planning,  implementation and recording of all construction activities.  At the time of the audit, the Country Office managed construction projects totalling US$36.4  million, including US$12.3 million under the direct implementation modality and US$24.1 million  through implementing partners. The audit aimed to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the  Country Office’s planning, management and oversight of construction activities.  The Country Office monitored the status of construction projects it directly implemented   using an  Excel tracking sheet. The tracker was incomplete, missing relevant information such as expected  completion date, GPS coordinates, etc. As there was no consolidation of the construction projects  implemented by partners, the Country Office did not have a complete overview of the totality of  construction projects and their status, which inhibited the ability to manage construction risks and  increased the Country Office’s exposure to fraud risk. The Country Office did engage engineering  firms to conduct quality control and supervision of its construction activities; however, in the field  offices, the audit team found that construction reports from implementing partners were reviewed  by UNICEF staff. The audit team also noted during visits to selected projects implemented through  partnersthat those projects were monitored by IP staff who did not have the necessary technical  expertise.  The audit team reviewed four construction contracts to assess the contract management process.  In two instances, the audit team noted that prior to the initiation or extension of the contracts, the  Contracts Review Committee (CRC) was not informed of significant vendor financial capacity risks  that had been identified. This was because there were no clear procedures for capturing and  disseminating such input. The audit team also noted that most transactions for construction  directly implemented by the Country Office were not charged to the right general ledger accounts,  as there was no consultation between programme and finance staff during service request  initiation. This increased the risk of inaccurate reporting and potential discrepancies in financial  control.  Construction managed by partners:   The audit team’s review of four programme documents  (PDs) that included construction projects noted that although the activities exceeded the annual  threshold of US$100,000, there was no local procurement authorization (LPA) from Supply  Division. Without the LPAs, the Country Office lacks the necessary safeguards that ensure that it  has conducted the necessary risk assessment, due diligence, and/or identified the need for  specialist support by Supply Division on substantial construction projects.  Inadequate oversight over the planning, implementation and recording of all construction activities  reduces the Country Office’s ability to ensure that the programmatic basis for the construction  activities is clear; identified operational and financial risks are being managed; and the Country  Office’s exposure to fraud and reputational risks is minimized.

14  AGREED ACTION 5  The Country Office agrees to strengthen oversight over the planning, implementation and  recording of all construction activities by:  i.   Establishing   a   complete   and   comprehensive   tracking   mechanism   that   covers   all  construction activities; Utilizing the mechanism to ensure all identified operational and  financial construction risks are being managed, there are adequate measures for quality  control and manual trackers are regularly reconciled with the corporate recording  system.  ii.   Ensuring local procurement authorizations are obtained from Supply Division for all  construction above the annual threshold.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Programme, Finance & Administration Manager,  Chief Supply & Logistics  Implementation Date:   30   September 2024  6. Programme implementation monitoring   Medium  Inadequate risk-based programme implementation monitoring and inconsistent third-party field  monitoring impeded the Country Office’s ability to obtain necessary assurance that programme  activities were implemented as planned and to assess the reliability of results reported by  implementing partners.  The Country Office utilized three modalities to monitor programme implementation: HACT  programmatic visits (PVs), field monitoring, and third-party field monitoring (TPFM). The audit  team evaluated the adequacy of the Country Office’s programme monitoring to ensure that  programme activities are implemented as planned.  Programmatic visits (PVs):   The audit team noted that 22 per cent of monitoring reports  categorized as PVs in eTools were actually activities such as training, meetings and technical  support. The review of a sample of 10 programmatic visits showed that all high-priority action  points raised in the PVs were not recorded in eTools and this was not captured in the supervisor’s  review. This meant that identified high priority actions were not addressed on a timely basis and  any related risks were not mitigated.  Field monitoring:   The audit team also noted that field monitoring was not risk-based, in that  some partners received substantially more visits compared to others, without clear justification.  For example, one partner with a ‘low’ HACT risk rating who received US$0.1 million had 87 visits  while another partner with a ‘medium’ HACT risk rating who received US$5.1 million had five  visits. Quality review of field monitoring reports varied by field office, as it was managed at field  office level without any oversight by the section chief in the Country Office. There was no evidence  that there was coordinated oversight over the field monitoring travel plans and the field monitoring  activities conducted. Therefore, there was no consolidated view of the adequacy and coverage of  field monitoring.

15  Use of third-party field monitoring (TPFM):   The Country Office had previously established a  TPFM system to obtain independent feedback on the implementation of project activities and to  verify the progress reported by partners. TPFM service providers were engaged due to limited  access to some areas and to augment the monitoring capacity in the field as needed. The audit  team’s review noted that TPFM services were not consistently utilized during the 2022-2023  period, despite continued lack of access to certain regions. This was because the Country Office  had commenced a bidding process for new or additional TPFM services in 2022, which was only  finalized in November 2023. During this period, in inaccessible areas the Country Office relied on  partner reporting, resulting in a lack of visibility of the rate of programme implementation and  objective assurance that activities were being implemented as intended.  AGREED ACTION 6  The Country Office agrees to strengthen the implementation and oversight of programme  implementation monitoring by:  i.   Putting in place appropriate processes to ensure adequate programme monitoring,  including ensuring there is adequate quality, coverage and risk focus of monitoring  activities and the recording and follow up of high priority actions arising from the  monitoring reports.  ii.   Developing and implementing an action plan on the use of third-party field monitoring  to harmonize the process and ensure objective assurance over programme activity  implementation.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Programme, Chief Planning, Monitoring & Data  Implementation Date:   30   November 2024  7. Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)   Medium  Despite the development of a PSEA action plan and establishment of field office focal points,  further   efforts   were   required   to   strengthen   the   management   of   PSEA   risk,   including   the  performance and follow-up of PSEA assessments of civil society organization partners and  human resources managed through third party service providers.  The Country Office had established a PSEA task force that supported senior management in  coordinating the development and implementation of relevant guidance for the Country Office.  The audit team assessed whether controls were adequate and operating effectively to ensure that  the risk of SEA within the local context was understood and that sufficient mitigating actions were  planned, implemented and monitored.  PSEA risk assessment and action plans:   The audit team assessed the completion and quality  of PSEA risk assessment for 7 of the 12 partnerships established in the period under review and  noted issues with the risk assessments for 5 of the partners. For two, the PSEA risk assessment  had been completed, but the action plans were not prepared. For the remaining three partners,  the audit team did not receive supporting evidence that the PSEA assessments and related action  plans had been completed. The use of HR service providers entailed the engagement of  thousands of field staff on UNICEF’s behalf who directly interacted and delivered services to the  affected populations. In 2021, the Country Office conducted third party PSEA assessments and

16  developed capacity enhancing action plans for five HR service providers. At the time of the audit,  the Country Office had not monitored the implementation of and compliance with the agreed  PSEA measures. During the audit period, new service providers, such as construction companies  and third-party field monitors who had direct interaction with affected populations, were not  assessed for SEA risks. The Country Office stated that these lapses in oversight occurred due to  multiple staff transitions during the audit period.  PSEA monitoring:   The programme visit template was updated with a section on PSEA, but it  had   not   been consistently   rolled   out   across the   Country Office at   the   time   of   the   audit.  Consequently, PSEA monitoring was not consistently conducted during programmatic monitoring  visits. Lack of systematic and consistent PSEA monitoring could impede the Country Office’s  ability to identify gaps in PSEA and to take timely corrective actions.  AGREED ACTION 7  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Ensure   the   necessary   PSEA   risk   assessments   and   supporting   action   plans   are  undertaken and finalized within set timeframes for all service providers with direct  access to targeted communities.  ii.   Consistently conduct approved PSEA risk monitoring activities during programme visits  and implement appropriate mechanisms for the collation and analysis of relevant  information arising from the visits to inform its PSEA action plans and measures.  Staff Responsible:   Programme Manager PSEA, Chief Planning Monitoring & Data  Implementation Date:   31   December 2024  8. Accountability to Affected Populations (AAP)   Medium  UNICEF’s 2022-2025 AAP strategy requires all country offices to integrate AAP into their plans,  with appropriate technical and financial support, and to ensure that country programmes are  informed by the views, participation and feedback from communities. The audit team assessed  the adequacy of the integration of AAP principles into the Country Office’s response and  availability of feedback mechanisms and noted the following:  AAP strategy and approach : At the time of the audit, the Country Office had not yet developed  a plan for the integration of AAP into its programmes, systems and processes. Consequently,  there   was   an   inconsistent   inclusion   of   AAP   activities   and/or   indicators   in   workplans   and  programme documents. Implementing partners interviewed also indicated they had limited  understanding and guidance from the Country Office regarding AAP. There was also a lack of  interagency coordination on AAP, mainly constrained by lack of agreement and inconsistent  uptake across United Nations agencies.  Feedback collection:   The Country Office used multiple tools to solicit feedback from the affected  populations but did not collate that feedback or demonstrate how it informed the programmes. A  mapping of the existing community-based complaint mechanisms was conducted in some  provinces, and it highlighted the existence of numerous hotlines operated by different IPs for  specific purposes. However, the Country Office did not have a process to coordinate with IPs on

17  their feedback mechanisms and therefore could not leverage their information to improve  programmes. The lack of integrated mechanisms to facilitate sustained feedback from the  affected community may limit the ability of the at-risk populations to participate in the decisions  that affect their lives, to ensure they are properly informed and consulted, and have their views  acted upon.  AGREED ACTION 8  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Develop and roll out an AAP action plan to ensure AAP activities and indicators are  systematically included in programme and partnership documents and that there is  consistency in the adoption of the AAP approach across all sections and partnerships;  The   action   plan should identify key   areas of inter-agency   coordination,   such as  feedback mechanisms, that the Country Office champions.  ii.   Finalize a comprehensive mapping of existing feedback mechanisms and develop a  gap analysis and roadmap to support the leveraging of existing systems and the  development of additional feedback mechanisms to fill the identified gaps.  Staff Responsible:   Chief Field Operations  Implementation Date:   30   November 2024

18  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to  each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity,  area, activity or process, or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a potential opportunity for improvement in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low-priority  observations are reported to management during the audit but are not  included   in   the   audit   report.   Action   in   response   to the   observation   is  desirable.  Medium  The   observation relates to a weakness or   deficiency   in the assessed  governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution  within a reasonable period of time to avoid adverse consequences for the  audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires  prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process ,   or for UNICEF as a   whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for  the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement.  The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a  materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity,  area, activity   or   process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  needed   major   improvement.   The   weaknesses   or   deficiencies  identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance  of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were   not   adequately   established   or   not   functioning   well.   The  weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative  impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or  process.  APPENDIX

19  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St.  New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation