# 2024 OIAI Audit Report of the Türkiye Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2061/file/2024_t%C3%BCrkiye_courntry_office_audit_%20report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2061/file/2024_t%C3%BCrkiye_courntry_office_audit_%20report.pdf.pdf)

---

1  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  DECEMBER 2024  Report 2024/17  Report on the Internal Audit of the  TÜRKIYE COUNTRY OFFICE

2  Executive Summary .......................................................................................................   3  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context ............................................................................................................................   6  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach........................................................................   8  Observations and Management Action Plan ................................................................   9  1. Partnerships Management  2. Procurement, Management and Distribution of Supplies  3. Local Programme and Monitoring Systems  4. Programme Monitoring  5. Supply End-user Monitoring (SEUM)  6. Humanitarian Cash Transfers  7. Procurement and Management of Service Contracts  Appendix .......................................................................................................................   20  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Türkiye Country Office, covering the period from 1 January 2023 to 30 June 2024. The audit was conducted in June 2024 in accordance with the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes in a selection   of   significant   risk   areas   of   the   Türkiye   Country   Office,   including   partnerships management, programme monitoring, supplies and service contracts, protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA) and cash transfers. The descriptions of the specific risks evaluated are provided in the Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach Section of this report.  The Türkiye Country Office operates in a challenging environment. In 2023, Türkiye continued to be one of the world’s leading hosts of refugees, with close to 4 million. In February, two powerful earthquakes struck, affecting 15.7 million people, including Syrian refugees. During the audited period,   the   Country   Office   delivered   the   Country   Programme   through   a   network   of   53 implementing partners, most of which are government partners. The Country Office transferred US$139 million to those partners, representing approximately 60 per cent of total expenditure. The transfer of cash, the 2023 earthquakes and the Syrian humanitarian crisis presented the Country Office with several risks. The audit sought to determine whether and how the Country Office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI concluded that the assessed governance, risk management,   or   control   processes   were  Partially Satisfactory, Improvement Needed,  meaning   that   the   assessed   governance,   risk management or control processes were generally adequate   and   functioning   but   needed improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies  identified were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted some areas where UNICEF Türkiye Country Office’s controls were adequate and functioned well:  •   Partnership   Management :   The   Country   Office   established   multi-sectoral   simplified programme documents (SPDs) to cover education and child protection, making it easier for programme sections to manage the partnership and monitor the partner’s programme interventions.  •   Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA):   The Country Office embedded PSEA indicators in rolling work plans for four government partner municipalities to ensure that SEA risk is adequately addressed. The Country Office intends to use what it has learned from this experience before expanding this approach to additional government partners.  Satisfactory  Partially   Satisfactory,  Improvement   Needed  Partially   Satisfactory,   Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4  The audit team also made a number of   observations   related to the management of the key risks  evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:  •   Partnerships Management:   There was a need for more coordinated monitoring with other United Nations agencies to ensure that, in cost-sharing situations, UNICEF is only charged for work completed on its behalf by implementing partners. Otherwise, any cost overcharge will go unnoticed.  •   Programme Monitoring:   Supply end-user monitoring was not conducted regularly. There were issues noted in completeness, timeliness and quality of programmatic visits. There were numerous open action points for follow-up by the Country Office arising from programmatic visits dating back to 2018. These weaknesses could reduce the timeliness of corrective action and result in UNICEF programmes not meeting their objectives.  •   Humanitarian cash transfers:   Weaknesses were noted in the Country Office’s oversight of the implementing partner that conducted the humanitarian cash transfer programme. The Country Office did not conduct a dedicated risk analysis for the ‘Children First’ Humanitarian Cash Transfer programme and the CSO partner was managing various conflicting functions, such   as   identifying   beneficiaries,   making   payments   to   beneficiaries,   and   reconciling payments, and was responsible for managing the grievance redressal mechanism.  The table below summarizes the key actions management has agreed to take to address the residual risks identified and the ratings of those risks and observations with respect to the assessed governance, risk management and control processes. (See the   definitions of the  observation ratings   in the Appendix.) For all other areas within the audit scope, no deficiencies in  the governance, risk management or control processes evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  OBSERVATION RATING  Category of  Process   Area or Operation and Key Recommended Action   Rating  Control Processes  Programme Monitoring (Observation 4) : The Country Office should develop an overarching monitoring framework to ensure that all required programmatic visits are conducted to the appropriate standards, are subjected to supervisory review, and any action points from those visits are recorded and followed up. It should also provide training to programme staff using corporate field monitoring tools.  High  Procurement, Management and Distribution of Supplies (Observation 2):   Ensure that: capacities and capabilities of partners are assessed before entering into storage and distribution agreements; all partners are instructed to inform the Country Office immediately if any issues with supplies are identified; and programme sections relay supplies-related information from micro-assessments, programme monitoring visits and partner reports to the Supplies and Logistics Section for follow-up.  Medium  Local programme and monitoring systems (Observation 3):   The Country Office should implement UNICEF’s Field Monitoring Module and Partner Reporting Portal by January and December 2025, respectively, as planned, and ensure that all data, including backups,  Medium

5  OBSERVATION RATING  Category of  Process   Area or Operation and Key Recommended Action   Rating  is transferred from the vendor and the cloud to UNICEF’s corporate tools and that vendors do not retain any UNICEF data.  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit. The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk management and control processes.

6  Türkiye is the 17th largest economy in the world, with a population of more than 85 million.  In 2023, the resident child population in Türkiye stood at 22.2 million (26 per cent of the Turkish population). In 2021, Türkiye’s young people between the ages of 15 and 24 made up 15.1 per cent of the population (12.9 million youth). That percentage is higher than the European Union (EU) average of 10.6 per cent.  Türkiye is one of the largest refugee-hosting countries in the world, hosting about 3.9 million   refugees   in   2023,   including   3.2 million Syrians under temporary protection, of   whom   an   estimated   1.48   million   are children   (0-17   age   group).   It   remains   a destination and transit country for migrants, including those attempting to reach Europe from Asia and elsewhere. In addition to the refugees and migrants, Türkiye also hosts  0.5 to 2.5 million Roma population.  destroyed.  On   6   February   2023,   two   powerful earthquakes   struck   southern   and   central Türkiye in quick succession, affecting 15.7 million people. The earthquakes occurred during the peak of winter, leaving hundreds of   thousands   in   freezing   temperatures without   access   to   shelter,   food,   water, heaters   and   medical   care.   Essential services such as schools and hospitals also were damaged or  Following the earthquakes, 2.6 million people, including approximately 700,000 children, lived in tents in both formal and informal sites in Türkiye for several months. The devastation caused by the earthquakes had particularly egregious effects on the affected populations’ access to water, sanitation, and hygiene.. On 17 February 2023, UNICEF activated an L3 Corporate Emergency Procedure   1   for six months to respond urgently and deploy all possible means and resources at scale in the earthquake-affected areas.  UNICEF has a long-standing presence in Türkiye. At the time of the audit, the Country Office had 157 staff members, with 125 in Ankara, 30 in Gaziantep and 2 in Istanbul. There were 11 open vacancies across various sections.  The Country Office implements its programmes through partnerships with the 34 government implementing partners (IPs) at the ministerial and municipal levels and with 19 civil society organizations (CSOs). The expenditure information by programme from 1 January 2023 to 30 June 2024 was US$226 million. Figure 1 provides a further breakdown of the expenditures for that period. During the audit period, the Country Office transferred approximately US$139 million in cash to its partners and spent approximately US$39 million on programme supplies and US$25 million on service contracts.  1   During emergencies, Country Offices are allowed to use simplified procedures which supersede global policies, for a range of programmatic and operational activities, so that they can respond faster to events on the ground.  CONTEXT

7  Figure 1: Expenditure per Cost Category from 1 January 2023 to 30 June 2024 in US$  Figure 2 below shows the Country Office’s expenditure on key programmes during the audit period. Major expenditures were on Child Protection and Social Protection Services (US$85 million),   Equitable   Early   Childhood   Development   ($82   million),   and   Enhanced   Adolescent Development and Participation ($48 million). These programmes reflect the Country Office's strategic priorities outlined in the Country Programme Document 2021-2025.  Figure 2: Expense per Programme Outcome from 1 January 2023 to 30 June 2024 in US$  Expenditure   by   Programme   Outcome  $8,638,365.93   $2,271,471.45   $396,759.33  $81,973,894.61  $84,770,360.92  $47,678,591.19  EQUITABLE   EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT  ENHANCED ADOLESCENT DEVELOPMENT AND PARTICIPATION  IMPROVED CHILD PROTECTION AND SOCIAL PROTECTION SERVICES  PROGRAMME EFFECTIVENESS

8  The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes in a selection of significant risk areas of the Türkiye Country Office, including partnerships management, programme monitoring, supplies and logistics, protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA) and cash transfers.  The audit scope was determined during the audit planning process based on an assessment of inherent risks   2   and included the following areas:  •   Governance and Accountability  •   Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)  •   Partnership Management  •   Cash Transfers to Implementing Partners  •   Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT) Assurance Activities  •   Programme Monitoring  •   Humanitarian Response Performance Monitoring – Earthquake  •   Humanitarian Response Performance Monitoring – Regional Refugee Response  •   Procurement, management and distribution of supplies  •   Fundraising  •   Humanitarian Cash Transfers  The audit was conducted in accordance with the Code of Ethics and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. For the purpose of audit testing, the audit covered the period from 1 January 2023 to 30 June 2024. The audit involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data analytics, document review, transaction tests, evaluations and validation of preliminary observations.  2   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control processes.  AUDIT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND APPROACH

9  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Partnerships Management   Medium  The Country Office’s response to the 2023 earthquakes alerted it to the need for more robust contingency planning with partners. There was also a need for more coordinated monitoring with other United Nations agencies to ensure that, in cost-sharing situations, UNICEF is only charged for work completed on its behalf.  Contingency clauses for emergencies in programme documents : UNICEF Emergency Procedures   3   require   that   Country   Offices   responding   to   humanitarian   emergencies   sign contingency   Programme   Documents   with   CSO   partners   and   ensure   that   all   Programme Documents with partners with humanitarian response capacity include a contingency clause of up to 10 per cent of the budget. Creating those contingency Programme Documents and including contingency clauses in existing Programme Documents support Country Offices' work with partners to respond quickly to crises.  The audit team reviewed 10 CSO Programme Documents that were active during the period under audit. Five of those documents were simplified programme documents for emergency response. Emergency Procedures require that Programme Documents include contingency clauses, but the audit team found that none of the documents reviewed had them. Country Office staff told the auditors   that   contingency   clauses   had   not   yet   been   implemented   in   existing   Programme Documents and that no new contingency Programme Documents had been signed. The audit team was informed that although the Programme Documents did not include contingency clauses, this did not slow the emergency response.  Cost sharing for CSO personnel:   The UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook   4 requires that, where employees of CSO partners are working on multiple programmes, projects funded by other United Nations agencies, or other tasks, only the actual time spent implementing a particular UNICEF-supported programme intervention is considered an eligible cost for that programme budget. This requirement ensures that UNICEF bears the cost only of work completed on its behalf.  The audit team reviewed five Funding Authorization and Certificate of Expenditure (FACE) forms executed with three CSO partners for direct implementation in emergencies. Three of the five FACE forms had significant CSO personnel salary components. The audit team identified CSO personnel whose work would be cost-shared with other UN agencies and asked Country Office staff how they ensured that the CSOs only charged UNICEF for the work performed on its behalf. The auditors were told that the Country Office monitors this risk through programmatic visits and spot checks. However, evidence of this was not provided to the auditors. The Country Office staff advised that they have plans to strengthen the existing regular monitoring (monitoring visits and Programmatic Visits) and spot-check sampling with the support of an interagency level cross- checking   system   to   capture   cost-shared   staff   and   verify   the   labour   against   staffing;   that discussions had already been initiated at the United Nations interagency level to cross-check  3   UNICEF “The Emergency Procedures, Simplified & Streamlined for Every Emergency (L1, L2, L3),” Section 11 –  Implementation Modalities.  4   UNICEF “Programme Implementation Handbook Last Updated: March 2023,” Module 2, Section 8, 3.6 .  OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

10  programme budgets to monitor for potential duplicate charges between agencies; and that these interagency initiatives would be fully implemented in 2025.  2.   Procurement,   Management   and   Distribution   of  Supplies   Medium  The Country Office did not conduct warehouse capacity assessments for partners. Therefore, it could not be determined whether partners had the capacity to receive, store, and distribute supplies sent to them by UNICEF. Partners did not consistently report on unused programme supplies, which could have been used for other beneficiaries. There were issues with substandard supplies being delivered to partners but not reported to UNICEF for follow-up with the vendors.  The UNICEF Procedure on Programme Implementation: Work Planning, Partnerships and Risk Management requires country offices to assess the financial management and procurement capacity of partners expected to receive funds and supplies beyond the established financial threshold. OIAI noted the following:  Warehouse capacity assessments of implementing partners were not completed:   The Country Office had not performed warehouse capacity assessments to assess the management, storage capacity, accessibility and security of partners’ storage locations, as required. Based on a review of Programme Documents, the auditors noted a lag between the sign-off of Programme Documents and the distribution of supplies, mainly caused by a lack of adequate storage capacity at partner warehouses. This was reinforced during discussions with partners who highlighted the need for the Country Office to alert them of upcoming shipments of supplies to allow them adequate time to organize the receipt of supplies for onward distribution. Country Office managers informed the auditors that they mainly relied on the results of less detailed micro-assessments to assess partners' logistics capacity. An inspection of two partners' storage facilities by the auditors revealed a lack of basic safeguards, including no smoke detectors, fire extinguishers that were not serviced, and a lack of stock cards, which may result in loss of supplies through theft or damage.   The   Country   Office   acknowledged   that   the   failure   to   conduct   logistic   capacity assessments was due to a lack of clarity about whether the supply and logistics section or programme section was responsible for conducting those assessments.  AGREED   ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to ensure that:  i.   Existing and future Programme Documents signed with partners with humanitarian capacity are updated to include contingency clauses up to 10 per cent of the budget to support emergency response.  ii.   The interagency cross-checking approach is implemented to verify that UNICEF is only charged for CSO personnel’s time spent working on UNICEF programmes.  Staff Responsible:   Implementing Partnership Management Specialist  Implementation   Date:   30 June 2025

11  Unused Programme Supplies:   At the end of programme activities, implementing partners must notify UNICEF of the quantity and condition of all unused supplies. The Country Office distributed supplies based on implementing partners' request letters or distribution lists. One of the partners informed the audit team that they received approximately 2,500 school bag kits in November 2023 and that these supplies were still in storage because they had received more than needed due to inadequate forecasting of requirements by the Country Office. Another partner had damaged tents and unused air conditioners in their warehouse from an earthquake response Programme Document that ended in December 2023. The audit team’s review of final reports submitted by CSO partners after activities were completed found that in three of eight partnerships that had ended, the quantity and condition of undistributed and unused supplies were not reported to UNICEF. As a result, no action was taken by UNICEF regarding those supplies, such as having them returned to UNICEF, reallocating them to other implementing partners, or considering them in   subsequent   Programme   Documents.   Country   Office   managers   attributed   this   to   a communication gap. UNICEF had not informed the CSOs of the requirement to report on the quantity and condition of unused or undistributed supplies at the end of programme activities. Inadequate management of supply distributions could create an opportunity for loss, misuse and aid diversion.  Follow-up   of   supply   issues :   The   audit   team’s   document   review   and   discussions   with implementing partners revealed that risks or issues identified from micro-assessments and programmatic monitoring reports were not consistently communicated to the Supply and Logistics Section for follow-up. OIAI reviewed a sample of six reports prepared by implementing partners and found that three detailed the existence of unutilized supplies; however, this information was not relayed to the Supply Section for follow-up or corrective action.  3. Local Programme and Monitoring Systems   Medium  The Country Office used generic agreement templates to contract with cloud vendors, increasing the risk that when the Country Office moves to the Partner Reporting Portal, vendors may retain UNICEF’s data stored with the vendor or in the cloud. Using non-corporate and unconnected  AGREED   ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to ensure that:  i.   Capacities and capabilities of partners are assessed before entering into storage and distribution agreements.  ii.   All partners are instructed to inform the Country Office immediately if any issues with supplies are identified.  iii.   Programme sections relay relevant supplies-related information from micro- assessments, programme monitoring visits and partner reports to the Supply and Logistics Section for follow-up.  Staff Responsible:   Supply and Logistics Chief; Implementing Partnership Management Specialist; Planning and Monitoring Specialist; Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Chief; Deputy Representative Programme  Implementation   Date:   30 June 2025

12  systems resulted in duplicate data entry, wasted staff time, and incomplete information to support decision-making.  UNICEF Procedure on Programme Implementation: Work Planning, Partnerships and Risk Management (Section 68) states that in “implementing this Procedure, UNICEF offices and partners make use of the available UNICEF corporate and digital platforms for the management of work plans and implementing partnerships.” OIAI noted the following:  The   Country   Office   has   subscribed   to   a   reporting   system,   ‘ActivityInfo,’   where   UNICEF’s programme implementation progress data from partners is stored in the vendor’s cloud account. The Country Office management informed the audit team that this system was adopted by the office as it is used for the Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan for the Syria Crisis (3RP) and is used by all the main Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and stakeholders involved in this response and the earthquake response. The system allows information to be collected from the field and stores the data in the cloud. The audit team reviewed the agreement between the Country Office and the vendor operating 'ActivityInfo.’ The auditors noted that a generic UNICEF vendor agreement template was used to prepare the agreement and that the template did not include essential provisions or clauses concerning the protection and security of UNICEF’s data. Using a generic vendor agreement could increase the risk that the vendor might retain UNICEF’s data, such as backups and other information stored in the vendor’s cloud account, when the Country Office moves to the Partner Reporting Portal (PRP). Management informed the audit team that the Country Office will transition to the PRP in December 2025.  The Country Office uses an open-source monitoring system called ‘Kobo,’ which is, as informed by the Country Office management to the audit team, also used by other UN agencies as a data collection tool for emergency responses, given that the corporate tool (the Field Monitoring Module, or FMM) has not yet been implemented. In discussions with the audit team, Country Office   staff   recognized   the   need   to   improve   further   programme   monitoring   (including programmatic visits and PSEA monitoring) through the roll-out of the FMM.  ‘ActivityInfo’ and ‘Kobo’ are standalone tools the Country Office contracted from two vendors. They are not connected to, and do not feed into, corporate reporting systems. The Country Office uses the ‘ActivityInfo’ tool to obtain reports and results from its implementing partners. The Country Office must enter data into these local and corporate reporting systems. Multiple manual templates (outside ‘ActivityInfo’) were used to collect additional information from partners. The Country   Office   manually   reconciled   the   reports   from   the   two   systems   with   corporate systems/reports. Duplicate data entry and manual reconciliations take additional staff time and increase the probability of errors.  AGREED   ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Implement the corporate tools (the Field Monitoring Module and Partner Reporting Portal) by January and December 2025, respectively, as planned.  ii.   Ensure that all data, including backups, is transferred from the vendor and the cloud to UNICEF’s corporate tools and that the vendors do not retain any UNICEF data.

13  4. Programme Monitoring   High  There were weaknesses in the design, implementation and monitoring of programmatic visits by the Country Office. The weaknesses included fewer than expected visits and programmatic visit reports. Where reports were prepared, they lacked essential details concerning the specific indicators being monitored, targets, baselines and action points, which could result in gaps going unnoticed and might reduce the timeliness of corrective action and result in UNICEF programmes not meeting their objectives.  UNICEF’s Emergency Procedures state that Country Offices should adopt a risk-based approach to determine the coverage and frequency of field monitoring visits.  OIAI noted the following:  Completeness of planned programmatic visits:   UNICEF Country Offices should determine the number of programmatic visits for each intervention as required, depending on the CSO partner’s risk rating and the nature of the interventions. The audit team noted that insufficient programmatic visits had been planned for 5 of the ten programme documents reviewed and only 4 of the planned eleven visits had been completed. This was due to inadequate oversight by supervisors, which meant gaps could go unnoticed, and the partner's capacity would not be developed.  Quality of programmatic visits:   The audit team noted the following issues from a sample of 12 programmatic visit reports reviewed:  i.   In 3 of 12 programmatic visit reports, the Country Office did not verify the indicators reported by implementing partners. The three reports only referenced baseline and target data, not actual progress against the targets. Two other reports lacked details concerning the specific indicators being monitored and verified. Programme officers marked these indicators as ‘satisfactory’ without substantiation. Inadequate verification or monitoring of reported indicators could hinder the accurate reporting of programme progress for the abovementioned three reports.  ii.   The audit team noted that six programmatic visit reports did not include feedback from the beneficiaries, therefore limiting the Country Office’s consideration of beneficiary views on the programmatic interventions' relevance, quality and timeliness.  iii.   All action points should be recorded in eTools and followed up by UNICEF Country Offices. The audit team noted that action points concerning issues identified in four programmatic visit monitoring reports were not recorded in eTools. Consequently, those action points may not be monitored in follow-up visits.  The audit team also noted that the programme officers were not using the standard corporate template to document the results of programmatic visits. This was due to travellers not using the  Staff   Responsible:   Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Chief; Implementing Partnership Management Specialist; Technology for Development Officer; Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist  Implementation   Date:   31 December 2025

14  correct tools. The template includes sections for PSEA, supplies, beneficiary feedback, and reporting on indicators to encourage coverage of all these areas in programmatic visits and facilitate recording and reporting of the results.  Follow-up of action points:   On 6 May 2024, the Country Office had 216 overdue open action points in eTools, many dating back to 2018. Twenty-two were high priority. Discussions with staff revealed several reasons for the overdue actions, including recording action points outside the action point module in eTools, government staff turnover, and misclassifying action points as routine tasks (to-do list) rather than including only high and medium-risk findings. These issues highlight   inadequate   oversight   in   monitoring   action   points.   This   may   indicate   insufficient monitoring of follow-up action points or the need for additional staff training concerning the systems and tools.  Field monitoring in humanitarian situations informed by programmatic risk:   Programmatic risk comes from weaknesses or failure in programme design and implementation. This is particularly concerning in humanitarian contexts as it could increase mortality and morbidity or drive conflict and insecurity. Increased and high-intensity field monitoring seeks to identify and correct these problems quickly. The audit team sampled Simplified Programme Documents for five implementing partners and found that the requirement for more frequent monitoring visits was not included in the planned eTools trips in four of the five programme documents sampled. The required trips for the sampled Simplified Programme Documents should have ranged from 6 to 10 visits per document (37 visits in total). The Country Office stated that some field monitoring trips were performed but were not entered into the eTools system under ‘field monitoring.’ The travellers' managers did not note this omission or take corrective action. The failure to accurately assess the number of monitoring visits required and capture this information in eTools increases the risk that programmatic issues related to humanitarian situations may not be identified and corrective action may not be taken promptly.  5. Supply End-user Monitoring (SEUM)   Medium  Several issues with supply end-user monitoring practices at the Country Office increased the risk of unused, wasted and misappropriated supplies.  AGREED   ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to develop a monitoring framework to ensure that:  i.   Programmatic visits are conducted to the appropriate standards.  ii.   Programmatic visits are subjected to supervisory review and recording in eTools, and action points from those visits are recorded and followed up.  iii.   Staff conducting programmatic visits receive training on the appropriate use of corporate field monitoring tools.  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative Programme; Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Chief; Section Chiefs; Implementing Partnership Management Specialist  Implementation   Date:   30 June 2025

15  UNICEF’s Procedure on Monitoring requires that when UNICEF offices contribute supplies, programme monitoring visits must include a review of supplies. The timing and frequency of planned monitoring visits depend principally on the cash or supplies transferred value and the implementing partner’s risk rating. Depending on which is higher, the cash transfer or the supply value amount, the minimum number of field monitoring visits that include programmatic assurance ranges from zero to four trips a year. For example, no minimum visit required for values up to US$2,500, while for values of more than US$500,001 with a significant or high partner risk rating, a minimum of four visits per year is required. The Country Office’s Annual Management Plan required quarterly supply monitoring visits to be performed. UNICEF’s Procedure on Programme Implementation: Work Planning, Partnerships and Risk Management states that programmatic assurance is required for all government and CSO implementing partners receiving resources valued at US$2,500 or more from UNICEF in cash or supplies in a calendar year. OIAI noted the following:  Planning for supply end-user monitoring:   As required, the Country Office’s monthly travel plan identified   programme monitoring   visits to be performed under   the HACT   assurance plan. However, in developing the plan, the Country Office did not consider supply contributions made and the required monitoring trips per the 2024 Annual Management Plan.  The Country Office identified 22 supply monitoring trips in the eTools trip module, which amounted to 3 per cent of the total 781 visits from 1 January 2023 to 23 May 2024. The Country Office stated that some supply-related trips were not captured in eTools and that from now on, the monitoring staff’s supervisors will be instructed to capture these trips in eTools. Regardless of where these supply monitoring trips were captured, the auditors found issues with them. The audit team reviewed a sample of five partners that received US$8.3 million in supplies and found that only 6 of the required 15 supply-related monitoring visits were carried out. The Country Office could not demonstrate that   supply   end-user   monitoring was   performed   in   accordance   with UNICEF procedures and the Country Office’s 2024 Annual Management Plan and operating procedures. If supply end-user monitoring is not conducted, the Country Office has no assurance that the intended beneficiaries have received the intended supplies.  Inadequate supply end-user monitoring processes and oversight by senior management:  The auditors met with a sample of four implementing partners and found issues with the Country Office’s monitoring. In some instances, the Country Office did not take timely action to address issues. These included a partner that had damaged tents in their warehouse, a school that did not have an accessibility ramp, another school where an Early Childhood Education classroom was being used as a primary classroom, and baby hygiene kits that contained shampoo that mothers did not recognize and therefore did not use. In some cases, the Country Office acknowledged that it was aware of those issues and had not acted because of competing priorities during the emergency. Inadequate monitoring elevated the risk that corrective action was not initiated promptly.  The auditors were told in a meeting with the Supply Section manager that Supply Section staff did not participate in joint monitoring trips with programme staff for two partners who procured supplies amounting to approximately US$580,000. The purpose of those monitoring trips was to ensure that the quality of supplies was acceptable and to assess how supplies were stored and distributed.

16  The audit team also found that although the Country Office included the need for quarterly supply end-user monitoring in its 2024 Annual Management Plan, there was no evidence in the minutes of senior management meetings that this monitoring had been completed.  These situations highlight the inadequate oversight of the Country Office’s implementation of supply end-user monitoring.  6. Humanitarian Cash Transfers   Medium  Weaknesses were noted in the Country Office’s oversight of the implementing partner that conducted the humanitarian cash transfer programme.  UNICEF’s Procedure on Cash Transfers to Beneficiaries requires country offices to establish monitoring and assurance mechanisms to provide reasonable assurance over beneficiary list eligibility, existence, accuracy and validity; whether eligible beneficiaries received accurate cash assistance amounts; and whether they have a channel to voice concerns.  In response to the 2023 earthquakes, UNICEF, in partnership with the Ministry of Family and Social Services and a local NGO, implemented ‘Children First,’ a one-time cash transfer programme to mitigate the negative economic impacts of the earthquakes on children and their families. The programme aimed to help families purchase basic needs such as food, personal hygiene products, clothing, stationery, and transportation.  OIAI noted the following:  Risk Analysis:   The Country Office did not conduct a dedicated risk analysis for the ‘Children First’   Humanitarian   Cash   Transfer   programme.   The   analysis   should   have   assessed   the communication   strategy,   payment   modality,   and   the   need   for   case   management   during implementation. Incomplete or inadequate risk analyses may impact the timeliness of the programme's roll-out and cash delivery to the intended beneficiaries.  Monitoring of cash assistance interventions   typically includes real-time process monitoring and post-distribution monitoring (PDM) to verify whether payments were made in full and on a timely basis to the proper beneficiaries. This monitoring should be done by entities not responsible for identification and payment. OIAI found that the CSO partner for the ‘Children First’ programme was managing various conflicting functions such as identifying beneficiaries, making payments to  AGREED   ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to establish controls to ensure that:  i.   Supply end-user monitoring visits are completed as required.  ii.   The quality of supplies directly procured by partners is acceptable.  iii.   Action points from monitoring visits are completed on time, and the results are monitored by senior management.  Staff Responsible:   Programme Chiefs; Supply and Logistics Manager; Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Chief  Implementation   Date:   30 June 2025

17  beneficiaries, reconciling payments, and managing grievance redressal. This elevates the risk that inaccurate payments or payments to ineligible people may not be reported to UNICEF.  The   auditors   reviewed   the   cash   transfer   process   for   this   programme,   from   beneficiary identification through to payment processing, reconciliation and post-distribution monitoring and were not satisfied that UNICEF had sufficient oversight of the CSO’s activities, given that the CSO was responsible for the end-to-end process. Independent oversight over the processes is needed to provide an unbiased assessment of the operations and help identify any issues that may need to be addressed.  Assurance : The audit team found that the Country Office relied on generic audit terms of reference when conducting audits of direct cash transfers to partners under the Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT). The Country Office did not tailor the terms of reference to the specific risks relating to Humanitarian Cash Transfers, including using the CSO partner’s information systems. Generic terms of reference have some limitations, including not requiring confirmation of details such as the accuracy of beneficiary lists, the timing of the transaction, and the receipt of accurate cash amounts by intended beneficiaries. Our 2024 Report on the Internal Audit of Cash Assistance to Beneficiaries identified this issue.   5   Agreed actions to address this issue at the headquarters level were accepted and are currently being implemented. Therefore, due to the ongoing implementation of these actions, no recommendation will be made here.  7. Procurement and Management of Service Contracts   Medium  The selection and evaluation of vendor   bids, contract   awards, and contract management processes for service contracts were generally satisfactory. However, the Country Office did not close contracts promptly after project completion, resulting in open balances that could not be used for other purposes. There was no rotation of audit firms or audit firm personnel for service contracts awarded for assurance services on implementing partners, which may reduce audit objectivity.  5   Office of Internal Audit and Investigations, Report on the Internal Audit of Cash Assistance to Beneficiaries, Observations and Management Action Plan, Section 6. Cash Transfer Fiduciary Management.  AGREED   ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Assess the risks of using the single CSO partner to perform multiple functions related to the ‘Children First’ programme and modify its processes to minimize risk and support adequate segregation of duties concerning cash transfers to beneficiaries.  ii.   Assess the oversight measures implemented for the ‘Children First’ programme to ensure effective risk management and assurance activities when implementing cash assistance interventions.  Staff Responsible:   Social Policy Specialist; Implementing Partnership Management Specialist  Implementation   Date:   30 September 2025

18  UNICEF’s procurement procedures are based on several objectives, including fairness, integrity and   transparency   through   competition.   Ensuring   competitive   and   fair   procurement   allows organizations to achieve better value for their money and innovation in their procurement processes and reduces the risk of fraud.  During the audit period, the Country Office issued service contracts worth approximately US$41 million,   with   the   bulk   of   expenditure   on   consultancy   services   and   travel,   lodging   and entertainment. The audit team sampled 24 contracts (out of 312 issued during the audit period), with a total value of approximately US$26 million, to determine whether the procurement bid process was appropriate, how contracts were awarded and managed, and if the intended services were received. The audit team found that the bids were adequately evaluated, in line with the approved terms of reference for the engagement, and where necessary, they were cleared by the Contracts Review Committee and the Supply Division’s Supplier Evaluation Unit.  Although the contract bid process was satisfactory, the audit team identified the following issues with service contracts that warrant attention:  Contract closure:   UNICEF’s Procedure on Contract Management   6   requires that, where the vendor has submitted the final invoice for payment, the contract should be closed within 90 days of the contract’s validity end date. The audit team identified 13 contracts with a total unused balance of approximately US$500,000 that had been open for more than 90 days after the contract validity end date. If contracts with open balances are not closed promptly, they remain committed, which means the funds are not available for the Country Office to use for other purposes.  Audit firm and staff rotation : The audit team noted that the Country Office had used the same audit firm to conduct assurance-related activities for CSO implementing partners since 2018. Other Long-Term Agreement (LTA) holders could provide similar services at the same or at a lower cost. There is, therefore, a risk of UNICEF overpaying for these services and the firm becoming less objective over time. Management informed OIAI that in the latest bid process in November 2022, the vendor was identified as the preferred vendor and had the right of first refusal to provide these services. The OIAI audit team verified this by reviewing the Contract Review Committee's (CRC) decision.  OIAI found that, since 2018, the same individuals had repeatedly conducted HACT audits of the same implementing partners. The service provider confirmed this and stated that this was in line with the requirements of the UNICEF bid document. Country Office management stated that this requirement can only be adjusted or removed in the subsequent LTA process. The lack of staff rotation by assurance providers might lead to the auditors becoming less objective and not identifying and reporting all issues.  6   UNICEF Procedure on Contract Management, Section 44.  AGREED   ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to ensure that:  i.   Supply and Logistics monitor the closure of purchase orders and escalate unresolved issues to senior Management.

19  ii.   Audit   firms   and   associated   auditors   providing   assurance   services   for   implementing  partners are periodically rotated.  Staff Responsible:   Supply and Logistics Manager; Implementing Partnership Management Specialist  Implementation   Date:   31 March 2025

20  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity, area, activity or process, or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The   observation concerns a potential opportunity for improvement in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low-priority observations are reported to management during the audit but are not included in the audit report.   Action in response to the observation   is  desirable.  Medium  The   observation   relates   to   a   weakness   or   deficiency   in   the   assessed  governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution  within a reasonable period of time to avoid adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process, or for UNICEF as a whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The   assessed   governance,   risk   management   or   control   processes  were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control   processes  were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement.  The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a  materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity,  area, activity or process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  needed   major   improvement.   The   weaknesses   or   deficiencies  identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes  were   not   adequately   established   or   not   functioning   well.   The  weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative  impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  APPENDIX

Office of Internal Audit and Investigations  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St.  New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation