# 2025 OIAI Audit Report on the Democratic Republic of the Congo Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2166/file/2025-democratic-republic-of-the-congo-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2166/file/2025-democratic-republic-of-the-congo-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

UNICEF OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT AND INVESTIGATIONS  AUGUST 2025  Report 2025/15  Report on the Internal Audit of the  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO COUNTRY OFFICE

2  Executive Summary ......................................................................................... 3  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context ......................................................................................................... 11  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach ........................................................... 14  Observations and Management Action Plan .................................................. 15  1.   Fraud Risk Management  2.   Governance and Office Structure  3.   Management of Third-party Consultants  4.   Construction Contracts  5.   Supply Planning  6.   Transfer and Monitoring of Programme Supplies  7.   Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)  8.   Partnership Management  9.   Cash Transfer to Implementing Partners  10.   Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT) Assurance Activities  11.   Cash Assistance Programmes  12.   Procurement of Goods and Services  13.   Travel Management  14.   Asset Management  Appendix .......................................................................................................   49  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  CONTENTS

3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) Country Office, covering the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2024. The audit was conducted from 17 February to 8 March 2025 in conformance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. The objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes related to a selection of significant risk areas of the DRC Country Office. The specific risks evaluated are set out in the Audit Objective, Scope and Approach section of this report.  The DRC Country Office supports the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in implementing the country programme through partnerships with the Government at the central and subnational levels, as well as with civil society organizations (CSOs). During the audit period, UNICEF DRC transferred approximately US$256 million in cash and US$107 million worth of programme supplies to its implementing partners. Total resources transferred to implementing partners represented 63 per cent of the total expenditure for the audit period. The Country Office also spent approximately US$29.7 million to pay for consultants hired to support community health services and the polio vaccination campaigns. There were several risks related to cash transfers to implementing partners, assurance activities, programme supplies, construction projects, management of third-party consultants, programme supplies, staff travel, asset management and the procurement of goods and services. The country context indicates a high-risk environment for fraud and sexual exploitation, and abuse of children and women. The audit sought to determine whether and how the DRC Country Office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based on the audit work performed, OIAI concluded that the assessed governance, risk management or control processes were Unsatisfactory, meaning that the assessed governance, risk management or control processes were not adequately established or did not function well. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely  negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory, Improvement Needed  Partially   Satisfactory,   Major Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted the following practices that were innovative or exceeded expected levels of control:  •   Strong footprint in emergency locations: The DRC Country Office maintains a strong presence in Eastern DRC, where several emergencies occurred during the audit period. The Chief of Emergency, Emergency Manager, Chief of Field Operations, and Supply and Logistics Manager are based at the Goma Field Office, which serves as the hub for emergency response in the region. As part of its rapid response mechanism, the Country Office has also pre-positioned emergency supplies with identified implementing partners. The Country Office leads the emergency clusters for WASH, Education and Child Protection, with the WASH and Child Protection clusters located in Goma, where most emergencies have been concentrated. The Country Office also has established a support system that allows staff from other field offices to be easily deployed to cover vacancies or emergencies. This focus enables the Country Office to promptly and effectively respond to emergencies.  •   Relationship with donors: All five donors interviewed during the audit confirmed a strong and positive relationship with the DRC Country Office. This is evidenced by timely communication about programme activities that experienced delays. The donors also shared that they were satisfied with UNICEF’s emergency response and appreciated the Country Office’s presence in emergency locations.  The audit team also made several   observations   related to the management of the key  risks evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:  •   Fraud risk management: The Country Office did not fully assess fraud risks across all activities susceptible to fraud, thus limiting its capacity to mitigate those risks. For example, the Country Office was unable to provide the audit team with evidence that it had assessed and mitigated fraud risks related to mobile money transfers to beneficiaries and frontline health workers, assets, staff travel, and the recruitment of consultants through human resource companies. The audit team identified weaknesses in existing controls designed to mitigate fraud risk, such as monitoring fraud risk and red flags, providing fraud awareness training, and ensuring that Financial Disclosure and Declaration of Interest Statements are completed.  •   Governance and office structure: Although the Country Office had an accountability framework, a weak office culture and inadequate management oversight undermined the effectiveness of supervisory controls over programme activities and support operations. Specifically, during the audit period, the Country Office did not provide sufficient oversight of the decentralized humanitarian cash transfer programmes and incentive payments, resulting in internal control failures. The audit team also identified

5  issues related to the reporting structure and performance of the Internal Control Unit 1 , including overlaps in functions between that unit and the Implementing Partnership Unit.  •   Management of third-party consultants: While individual and institutional contract needs are assessed at the beginning of each year, the Country Office does not conduct a thorough human resource needs assessment and lacks a strategy for recruiting and managing consultants. This, combined with poor supervision and monitoring of  consultants’ work, as well as inadequate support for completed work at the time of payment, creates a significant risk that the Country Office may be engaging too many consultants, paying for consultants who do not provide services to the Country Office, or that consultants may be underutilized or performing work that does not effectively support UNICEF programmes.  •   Construction contracts: Some construction projects were not planned and executed on time within the grant validity period. There was a lack of information on the extent and value of indirect construction projects executed by implementing partners. Implementing partners received construction projects that exceeded the recommended thresholds, and their construction capacities were not assessed before projects were assigned to them. Ineffective planning and a lack of information on indirect constructions limited the Country Office’s oversight and monitoring of these projects and exposes UNICEF to reputational, financial and operational risks such as inadequate or incomplete construction.  •   Supply Planning: Although UNICEF considers procurement planning a key control to help achieve economy and efficiency and avoid waste in the procurement and distribution of supplies, the Country Office did not have an adequate process to regularly review and revise the approved Supply Plan to reflect changes in stock levels and needs. Supplies pre-positioned at partners’ warehouses were not considered when the Country Office developed its subsequent plans. These procurement planning gaps expose the Country Office and UNICEF to the risk of waste, misuse and reputational damage.  •   Transfer and monitoring of programme supplies: The Country Office transferred supplies to implementing partners above approved supplies budgets established in the programme documents. While micro-assessments of implementing partners were completed, the Country Office did not conduct a logistics capacity assessment of all implementing partners receiving supplies to ensure they can manage and control those supplies. This increases the risk of entrusting supplies to implementing partners who lack the necessary capacity needed to safeguard them from loss or misuse and promptly distribute them to the intended end-users. Insufficient end-user monitoring, combined with weak inventory management controls, limits the Country Office’s ability  1   In 2019, the Country Office created the Internal Control Unit (ICU) to strengthen organizational governance, internal  control systems, and risk management, including the implementation of UNICEF’s Anti-fraud Strategy.

6  to obtain assurance that the final beneficiaries received supplies transferred by the Country Office.  •   Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA): The Country Office did not conduct a thorough PSEA risk assessment as part of its Country Office Risk Assessment. No action points were established for those identified risks. The Country Office did not consistently monitor PSEA during programmatic visits to implementing partners, resulting in significant gaps in this critical monitoring. These risk assessment and monitoring weaknesses, combined with gaps in the monitoring of PSEA training, increase the risk that the Country Office will not effectively manage PSEA risks or that SEA incidents will not be promptly reported.  •   Partnership management: There were delays in finalizing programme documents with Civil Society Organization (CSO) implementing partners and releasing funds to implement the activities assigned to them. The Country Office did not provide sufficient justification for the direct selection of partners. This, combined with insufficient partner background checks, exposes the Country Office to the risk that qualified implementing partners may not have been selected in support of UNICEF obtaining the best value for money.  •   Cash transfer to implementing partners: Despite the high-risk ratings of implementing partners, outstanding cash transfers, as well as ineligible expenses, the Country Office continues to use direct cash transfers, thus increasing the risk of delays in liquidating cash and diversion of funds. Cash transfers of US$2.6 million were outstanding for over six months, with more than US$731,000 aged for over two years. There were delays in processing FACE forms, and the Country Office did not release funds promptly to the implementing partners, which elevates the risk that programme activities will not be implemented within the grant validity period.  •   Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT) assurance activities: In 2024, the Country Office did not complete spot checks for 40 partners who liquidated cash totalling US$9.7 million, and there were no programmatic visits for 43 partners who received cash transfers amounting to US$8.9 million and supplies worth US$7.9 million. This insufficient attention to assurance activities meant that the Country Office did not obtain the necessary certainty that its implementing partners were using the funds for their intended purposes. The Country Office did not have assurance that activities were being implemented according to the relevant programme documents, and that the risks of fraud, waste, abuse and inefficiency related to cash transferred to partners were being effectively managed. Ineligible expenses totalling US$13.4 million were outstanding as of December 2024, with 81 per cent (US$10.8 million) being overdue for over three years.  •   Cash assistance programmes: Beneficiaries’ mobile account numbers for one of the programmes were not verified and confirmed before making payments to them. Service providers distributing cash to beneficiaries lacked adequate liquidity to serve

7  the affected communities, which resulted in beneficiaries paying a commission to local payment agents to ensure that they received their money in a timely manner. This, combined with inadequate grievance oversight, exposes the Country Office to the risk of payment errors, reduced accountability, and weakened programme impact.  •   Procurement of goods and services: Controls related to awarding contracts to vendors with existing long-term agreements (LTAs) were insufficient to prevent or detect fraud in the contract award process. This, combined with the lack of impartiality and confidentiality declarations by staff conducting tender evaluations, as well as gaps in the invoice certification process and contract closure, exposes the Country Office to the risk of fraud.  •   Travel management: The Country Office did not have a travel plan that included the anticipated need for travel in line with its operations and programmes. The Country Office did not implement necessary controls or oversight to monitor staff travel days and associated costs. This resulted in some staff members accumulating significant in- country travel days and DSA amounts.  •   Asset management: Assets owned by the Country Office and valued at approximately US$2.4 million were either declared missing (951), damaged (303) or obsolete (18). The Country Office was unable to provide the auditors with documentation to support these declarations. This, combined with a lack of inventory counts and monitoring of assets on loan to implementing partners, increases the risk of asset misappropriation.  The table below summarizes the actions management has agreed to take to address the residual risks identified and OIAI’s assessment of the ratings for those risks (see the  definitions of the observation ratings   in the Appendix). For all other areas within the audit  scope, no deficiencies in the governance, risk management or control processes evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  AGREED ACTIONS & AUDIT RATINGS  Fraud Risk Management (Observation 1): In consultation with the Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM), the West and Central Africa Regional Office (WCARO), and the Chief Risk Officer, assess the risks and related controls in all areas susceptible to fraud and implement an action plan and appropriate management oversight mechanism to address gaps or significant control weaknesses; Strengthen fraud mitigation measures by identifying and addressing any control gaps and ensuring that fraud risk assessments are revised and updated promptly with newly identified risks and results of all assurance activities; Include the Internal Control Unit in oversight committees and increase the sharing of information across the Country Office concerning risks; Adhere to the guidance on Financial Disclosure and Declaration of Interest Statements; Establish a training plan for fraud awareness for all staff, vendors and implementing partners receiving resources from the Country Office.  High

8  Governance and Office Structure (Observation 2): In coordination with the West and Central Africa Regional Office (WCARO), establish a centralized framework for monitoring field office operations and other support functions; In consultation with WCARO and the Chief Risk Officer, evaluate and revise the reporting structure and responsibilities of the Internal Control Unit (ICU) and address overlaps in responsibility between the ICU and Implementation Partnership Management.  High  Management of third-party consultants (Observation 3): Develop a strategy, including a needs assessment, concerning the recruitment of consultants and the delivery of their work; Create a database of all third-party consultants and ensure it is regularly reviewed and updated; Establish clear deliverables and key performance indicators (KPIs) for consultants and ensure that the work performed by each consultant is effectively supervised and monitored.  High  Construction contracts (Observation 4): Improve construction planning and oversight by ensuring that construction contracts are issued promptly, and that construction projects are monitored and completed within the grant validity periods; Improve coordination and information sharing between programme sections and the construction unit, and establish a mechanism to track all construction projects allocated to implementing partners; Ensure that technical capacity assessments of implementing partners are conducted before awarding construction projects to them and that contract amounts are within the threshold provided by UNICEF construction procedures; Ensure that adequate feasibility studies and project designs are conducted before construction contracts are signed.  High  Supply Planning (Observation 5): Develop an agile process that requires the Supply Plan to be regularly reviewed and revised to reflect changes in stock levels and needs, appropriately approved by the Country Management Team, and ensure supplies are procured according to the latest approved supply plans; Ensure that supplies pre-positioned at implementing partners’ warehouses are tracked and considered in subsequent supply planning.  Medium  Transfer and Monitoring of Programme Supplies (Observation 6): Assess warehouse and logistics capacity of implementing partners receiving supplies from the Country Office, and confirm and document that they have sufficient and current insurance coverage before releasing supplies; Cease transferring supplies to implementing partners above the approved budgets; Follow up with the implementing partner and obtain reimbursement for the supplies destroyed during the fire incident; Fully implement the supply end-user monitoring (SEUM) approach developed by the Nutrition section, systematize it and implement it across all programme sections to ensure that supplies will be effectively monitored during programmatic visits.  High  PSEA (Observation 7): Ensure all necessary annual PSEA Risk Assessments are completed and include a thorough assessment of SEA risks and the design and implementation of SEA prevention controls; Strengthen mechanisms to monitor  High

9  and ensure SEA risk mitigation measures are fully implemented, including PSEA training for implementing partners and third-party consultants.  Partnership Management (Observation 8): Establish efficient and effective review processes that mandate the prompt completion of partnership agreements and release of funds to implementing partners; Expand due diligence checks to provide greater assurance of the integrity of potential implementing partners, document the results and the reasons that support value-for-money in the selection of implementing partners; Strengthen monitoring of implementing partners’ activities to ensure that they comply with obligations agreed in programme documents; Implement mechanisms to ensure that implementing partners’ quarterly progress reports and mandatory humanitarian reports are submitted and reviewed promptly.  High  Cash transfer to implementing partners (Observation 9): Ensure that all implementing partners are trained on how to complete FACE forms, and enhance monitoring controls to ensure that the details are accurately recorded in the FACE forms; Monitor and ensure that grant funds are spent and accounted for within the grant periods agreed with donors; Increase follow-up and oversight of funds transfer to partners to ensure that activities are implemented and funds liquidated on time.  High  HACT Assurance Activities (Observation 10): Strengthen assurance activities by applying all elements of the HACT framework and strengthening oversight and coordination of the planning process to ensure it is based on a risk-based assurance model that considers partners’ risk rating; Analyse ineligible expenses to identify those containing errors and those that cannot realistically be recovered, and consult the Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM) and the Division of Data, Analytics, Planning and Monitoring (DAPM) for guidance on write-off; Take all necessary steps to recover outstanding ineligible expenses from implementing partners.  High  Cash Assistance Programmes (Observation 11): Strengthen the process for validating health workers’ mobile numbers before rendering payment to them; Enhance due diligence and capacity assessment of financial services providers to ensure those selected have broad coverage and sufficient liquidity to serve selected beneficiaries; Standardize the payment verification process for all cash assistance programmes to ensure that beneficiaries receive their allocated funds; Assess how to streamline different channels of grievance mechanisms, reinforcing accountabilities, and raising awareness of grievance mechanisms among beneficiaries.  Medium  Procurement of Goods and Services (Observation 12): Strengthen and secure the contract award process by ensuring all communications concerning financial offers from vendors with existing Long-Term Agreements are exchanged only through the secure email; Ensure that purchase orders are raised within the grant validity periods and that open purchase orders with expired validity end dates are closed promptly; Strengthen the invoice  High

10  certification process by ensuring that vendors' invoices are only certified and paid upon submission of complete supporting documents in VISION.  Travel Management (Observation 13): Develop a travel plan that aligns with the Country Office travel needs and the field monitoring plan, and ensure that the plan is approved by senior management and Chiefs of Field Offices and periodically updated; Strengthen senior management oversight over staff travel to ensure that the purpose, time, cost, and any subsequent amendments are adequately supported and approved; Conduct regular reviews of staff travel to ensure accuracy and completeness of information in travel reports; Conduct an analysis of the US$739,000 recorded under staff travel to determine the nature of the transactions and take appropriate actions to rectify.  High  Asset Management (Observation 14): Recover the value of missing assets from the staff members responsible in accordance with UNICEF's procedure; Strengthen senior management oversight to ensure there is appropriate supporting documentation to justify the existence or potential write-off of assets not found during counts; Ensure assets on loan with implementing partners are monitored and regularly counted.  High  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit. The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk management and control processes.  Eva Mavroeidi  Deputy Director, Internal Audit Office of Internal Audit and Investigations

11  The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is a large country in Central Africa, encompassing more than 2.34 million square kilometres. The country is composed of 26 provinces. Its largest city, Kinshasa, is also its national capital. The DRC has an estimated population of 107 million (2021 estimate), of which approximately 70 per cent live in rural areas. Approximately 76 million of its population are children under the age of 19 years, including 25 million adolescents (ages 10–19 years).  In 2024, the country ranked 180th out of 193 countries on the Human Development Index and 162nd out of 180 on the 2023 Transparency International Corruption Index. UNICEF estimates that 12.8 million people, including 7.5 million children, need humanitarian assistance. The leading causes of child mortality are malaria, pneumonia, diarrhoea and malnutrition. The country is vulnerable to health epidemics, with outbreaks of Ebola, cholera, polio, and, most recently, Mpox creating additional health challenges.  Since 2004, UNICEF and its implementing partners have provided humanitarian assistance to approximately 1.2 million people annually through the Rapid Response to Movements of Populations (RRMP) mechanism. UNICEF coordinates emergency clusters in four areas (Nutrition, Education, WASH, and Non-Food Items) and the Child Protection working group.  The DRC has the highest number of United Nations-verified grave violations globally and one of the highest numbers of internally displaced people. Currently, an escalation of armed conflict in the country is severely impacting 14.9 million children, who may be harmed by recurrent disease outbreaks, endemic sexual violence, and growing access constraints – all exacerbating vulnerability and heightening child mortality. Increased military operations, along with hostilities, continue to create additional risks to children’s well-being.  The security situation in the DRC is difficult and complex, with several armed groups active in the eastern part of the country and multiple inter-ethnic and intercommunal clashes across the country. Under Security Council Resolution 2463 (2019), the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) is deployed with a core mandate to protect civilians and strengthen the State’s institutions. The crisis in eastern DRC worsened in January 2025, with a rebel group capturing the city of Goma in North Kivu and Bukavu in South Kivu. The UNICEF DRC Country Office field offices in those two provinces represent approximately 25.5 per cent of the Country Office’s total expenditure for the audited period. According to a March 2025 UNICEF DRC Humanitarian Situation Report, 2   the latest series of hostilities is causing massive displacement, estimated at more than 1 million people, including an estimated 400,000 children, in North and South Kivu.  2   Humanitarian Situation Report - March 2025  CONTEXT

12  Context of key risk areas covered in the audit  During the period under audit, UNICEF activated Level 3 corporate emergency scale-up procedures on three occasions: in June 2023, to respond to Polio and Cholera outbreaks in Eastern DRC; in August 2024, to support Mpox preparedness and response; and in December 2024, to respond to another Polio outbreak. The Country Office launched Humanitarian Action for Children appeals in 2023 and 2024 for US$862 million and US$804 million, respectively.  The recent decision by the US Government to freeze several USAID grants will likely impact  UNICEF’s programme delivery.  The Country Office has a total workforce of 444 posts (133 international professionals, 161 national officers and 150 general service posts). As of 8 March 2025, there were 64 vacant posts (21 international professionals, 29 national officers and 14 general service staff). The UNICEF Country Office is located in Kinshasa, and there are eight field offices, located in Bukavu, Goma, Bunia, Kalemie, Kananga, Lubumbashi, Mbandaka and Ouest Kinshasa.  Through service providers, the DRC Country Office engaged 542 consultants and hired 2,184 front-line health personnel (Community Health Workers) to support community services and the polio vaccination campaigns.  Country Programme Document: The 2020-2024 DRC Country Programme Document (CPD) covers six programmatic areas: social inclusion; health; nutrition; education; child protection; and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and one cross-sectoral component (Programme Effectiveness and Management). The CPD included a proposed aggregate indicative budget of US$328 million from regular resources, and US$767 million in other resources, subject to the availability of specific-purpose contributions, for the approved period. During the period covered by this audit, CPD expenditure totalled US$580 million. Figures 1 and 2 below outline the CPD spending by outcome and category for the audited period.  Figure 1: Programme Expenditure by outcome - January 2023 to December 2024  Programme Spending by Outcome  Social Inclusion  Health Nutrition Education  Programme Effectiveness  Protection  WASH  166.7  122.3  86.8  39.5  69.6  44.6  50.4  US$   Millions

13  Figure 1 provides a breakdown of the country programme budget by programme component. It shows that most resources were spent on social inclusion, mainly related to emergency responses in Eastern DRC. The US$69.6 million expenditures on programme effectiveness include communication, programme coordination and monitoring.  Figure 2: Expenditure by cost category - January 2023 to December 2024  Figure 2 shows the Country Office’s expenditure by key cost category during the period audited. The most significant amount was US$255.5 million in cash transferred to implementing partners. The audit scope included key controls related to this as well as expenditure on programme supplies, general operating costs and service contracts. Staff costs were excluded from the audit scope due to the high degree of centralization and standardization in the organization's administration and management of staff-related costs, which the audit team believes reduces the risk of errors and fraud.  Programme Spending by Category  Cash Transfers   255.5  Staff Cost   98.7  Service Contracts   58.7  Programme Supplies   129.8  General Operating Cost   37.4  US$   Millions

14  The objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes over a selection of significant risk areas of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) Country Office.  The audit scope was determined during the audit planning process based on an assessment of the inherent 3   risks of the DRC Country Office, and included the following areas:  •   Fraud risk management  •   Governance and office structure  •   Construction contracts  •   Supply planning, distribution and monitoring  •   Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA)  •   Partnership management  •   Cash transfer and HACT assurance activities  •   Humanitarian cash transfers and payment of incentives  •   Local procurement of goods  •   Service contracts  •   Accountability to affected populations  •   Emergency response  •   Safety and security  •   Travel management  •   Asset management  During field work, emergency response and safety and security were excluded from the audit scope due to the ongoing and escalating security crisis in the eastern part of the country.  The audit field work was conducted from 17 February to 8 March 2025 in conformance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. For the purpose of audit testing, the audit covered the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2024. The audit involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data analytics, document review, tests of transactions, evaluations and validation of preliminary observations.  3   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no action, including internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control processes.  AUDIT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND APPROACH

15  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Fraud Risk Management   High  The Country Office did not fully assess fraud risks across all activities susceptible to fraud, thus limiting its capacity to mitigate those risks. For example, the Country Office was unable to provide the audit team with evidence that it had assessed and mitigated fraud risks related to mobile money transfers to beneficiaries and frontline health workers; assets; staff travel; and the recruitment of consultants through human resource companies. The audit team identified weaknesses in existing controls designed to mitigate fraud   risk, such as monitoring fraud   risk and   red flags,   providing   fraud awareness training, and ensuring that Financial Disclosure and Declaration of Interest Statements are completed.  UNICEF has a long-standing zero tolerance for all forms of fraud and corruption. This necessitates a strong commitment by country offices to prevent, detect and respond to fraud and misconduct in all its forms. The audit team evaluated the adequacy of the Country Office’s fraud risk control environment to determine its effectiveness. Particular attention was paid to fraud risk management activities, including risk assessment and monitoring, staff and stakeholder communication and training, and establishing and applying controls to identify, assess and monitor fraud red flags.  Annual fraud risk assessment:   According to the UNICEF Policy on Anti-Fraud and Corruption, country offices are required to conduct an annual fraud risk assessment to help their management staff understand the unique fraud risks associated with their programme activities and operations, to identify weaknesses in controls, and to develop measures to mitigate identified risks. While the Country Office did conduct the 2024 annual fraud assessment, the assessment did not include the full spectrum of the Country Office’s activities that are susceptible to fraud. For example, the Country Office did not assess fraud risk related to three particularly vulnerable areas, including mobile money transfers to beneficiaries and frontline health workers, staff travel, and the recruitment of consultants through human resource companies. When assessing fraud risks, the proposed mitigation measures were insufficient to mitigate the assessed risks. For example, the mitigation measures for fraud and corruption simply included awareness training and the escalation of fraud cases to OIAI. Other mitigation measures were not considered, such as proactive reviews of service contracts, staff travel expenses and the Country Office assets to identify red flags, enforcing vendor and partner due diligence, requiring staff to declare conflicts of interest, rotating staff involved in procurement and partnership management, and strengthening controls over expenditures, as well as the bidding and contract award processes. The Country Office was not able to provide the  OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

16  auditors with evidence that it had evaluated the effectiveness of the fraud mitigation measures outlined in the Country Office’s risk register.  Monitoring of red flags: To effectively manage fraud risks, UNICEF’s Policy on Anti-Fraud and Corruption requires country offices to establish regular monitoring activities, including due diligence, transactional monitoring, and assurance processes. The Country Office’s controls for the timely identification, assessment and monitoring of fraud red flags were inadequate or ineffective. For example, the Country Office relied solely on preliminary checks in the United Nations Global Marketplace and the United Nations Partner Portal (UNPP) to validate vendor or implementing partner information. No further background checks, such as site visits, were carried out before onboarding new vendors or implementing partners. Also, there was no evidence that the Country Office conducts transaction-level monitoring on some of its key processes.  The review of the Country Office’s overall monitoring of fraud mitigation measures indicated that the dashboard used by management to monitor the implementation of those measures did not accurately reflect the status. For example, the awareness campaign was marked as 100 per cent complete when the Country Office had only provided training to implementing partners in one of the eight field offices, and to staff and vendors in Kinshasa and four of the eight field offices. Results from assurance activities were not consistently used to adjust partners' risk ratings or the amount of resources transferred to them. Implementing partners with multiple control gaps and significant ineligible expenses continued to receive resources from the Country Office without additional safeguards to prevent fraud risk.  Fraud monitoring was hindered by incomplete or inaccurate information. For example, during the review of procurement transactions, it was noted that several vendor invoices lacked supporting documentation in VISION 4   to confirm that services were rendered, yet the invoices were paid. While the Country Office maintains a tracker for fraud incidents related to nutrition supplies, the information in the tracker was incomplete, as it did not include all identified nutrition incidents from programmatic visits and field monitoring.  These issues raise questions about the effectiveness of the Country Office’s management in monitoring fraud mitigation measures. These limitations in identifying, evaluating, mitigating and monitoring fraud risk may expose the Country Office to additional fraud. The audit team identified additional significant fraud risks related to humanitarian cash transfers, asset management, and staff travel, which are outlined in the following section.  Fraud awareness and reporting: UNICEF Policy on Anti-Fraud and Corruption  requires mandatory, dedicated and regular fraud awareness training for staff and other stakeholders working for the Country Office, including vendors and implementing  4   UNICEF manages most of its business operations through VISION. The software is a specifically customized version of SAP – a recognized enterprise resource planning and management software.

17  partners. Although the Country Office conducted several fraud awareness training sessions in 2023 and anti-fraud awareness posters were prominently displayed in all sections of the office and on laptops, the audit team found that not all implementing partners had received fraud awareness training in 2024. The awareness campaign was marked as 100 per cent complete when the Country Office had only provided training to implementing partners in one of the eight field offices, and to staff and vendors in Kinshasa and four of the eight field offices.  Financial Disclosure and Declaration of Interest Statements were not completed as required by UNICEF’s CIFDP and relevant guidance from the Ethics Office. Three Chiefs of Field Offices and other staff involved in tendering and procurement processes did not complete the required Financial Disclosure and Declaration of Interest Statements for 2023 and 2024. Staff conducting tender technical evaluations failed to complete the Declaration of Impartiality and Confidentiality required by UNICEF procedures for managing and evaluating tenders. Declaring conflicts of interest is crucial to reducing fraud risk and ensuring the integrity and accountability of UNICEF operations. Without a clear understanding of UNICEF's zero-tolerance position concerning fraud, how to identify potential fraud, and how to report suspicions related to UNICEF's funds and supplies, Country Office staff, implementing partners and vendors may fail to detect or report fraud, thereby hindering the Country Office's fraud risk management efforts.  Root cause(s): Root causes include insufficient oversight by senior management over fraud risk assessments, mitigation and monitoring; there is a lack of risk information sharing between the Internal Control Unit, programme sections and support units; the Internal Control Unit is not represented at key office oversight committees, in particular those where decisions are made regarding doing business with partners and vendors; and the position of Operations Manager, Risk and Compliance, being vacant from October 2023 to April 2024, and again from June 2024 through the end of 2024.  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 1  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   In consultation with the Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM), the West and Central Africa Regional Office (WCARO), and the Chief Risk Officer, assess the risks and related controls in all areas susceptible to fraud and implement an action plan and appropriate management oversight mechanism to address gaps or significant control weaknesses.  ii.   Strengthen fraud mitigation measures by identifying and addressing any control gaps and ensuring that fraud risk assessments are revised and updated promptly with newly identified risks and results of all assurance activities.  iii.   Include the Internal Control Unit in oversight committees and increase the  sharing of information across the Country Office concerning risks.

18  2. Governance and Office Structure   High  Although the Country Office had an accountability framework, a weak office culture and inadequate management oversight undermined the effectiveness of supervisory controls over programme activities and support operations. Specifically, during the audit period, the Country Office did not provide sufficient oversight of the decentralized humanitarian cash transfer programmes and incentive payments, resulting in internal control failures.  The audit team also identified issues related to the reporting structure and performance of the Internal Control Unit, including overlaps in functions between that unit and the Implementing Partnership Unit.  According to UNICEF’s Policy on Anti-Fraud and Corruption, the Heads of Office are responsible and accountable for ensuring that an internal control framework is functioning effectively to help the Country Office and UNICEF achieve their objectives. An effective functioning internal control framework is crucial for supporting governance. Effective governance requires clear lines of responsibility and authority to ensure that decision-making aligns with organizational objectives. Thus, the audit team assessed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Country Office’s governance and office structure in support of achieving its objectives.  Office governance and management oversight: Although the Country Office had an accountability framework outlining responsibilities and accountabilities, the control environment, particularly management oversight and supervision, was weak and ineffective. For example, field office teams did not receive adequate support and oversight from the Country Office when implementing several humanitarian cash transfer programmes and incentive payments. This resulted in advance payments being made to financial service providers without proper reconciliations, payments being transferred to beneficiaries without the list of beneficiaries being validated, and the Country Office expensing advanced payments to a financial service provider (FSP) when the amounts were still sitting in FSP’s wallets with no bank guarantees. The Country Office did not have visibility of, and did not monitor, construction projects executed by implementing partners. Another example of insufficient management oversight was related to staff travel, where several staff members accumulated significant travel days and DSA amounts  iv.   Adhere to the guidance on Financial Disclosure and Declaration of Interest Statements.  v.   Establish a training plan for fraud awareness for all staff, vendors and implementing partners receiving resources from the Country Office.  Staff Responsible: Representative, Operations Manager - Risk & Compliance, Section Heads  Implementation Date: December 2025

19  without a sufficient rationale documented for those trips. There was also inadequate oversight of assets, leading to the Country Office declaring 951 assets missing, 303 assets damaged, and 18 assets obsolete—none of which had supporting documentation to substantiate these claims. The Country Office did not follow up on or attempt to recover approximately US$13.4 million in ineligible expenses outstanding with implementing partners, 81 per cent of which had been overdue for more than three years. The audit team found no evidence of the Country Office’s management taking appropriate action to ensure that staff perform their assigned duties as required (e.g., monitoring ineligible expenses, assets and construction projects). The audit team notes that the weak control environment and the lack of accountability contribute to other observations in this report.  Structure, role and responsibilities of the Internal Control Unit (ICU 5 ): In 2019, the Country Office renamed and expanded the scope of the Quality Assurance Unit, transforming it into the Internal Control Unit (ICU) to strengthen organizational governance, internal control systems, and risk management—including the implementation of its anti-fraud strategy. The unit has five positions (one Manager [P4] and four Operations Specialists [P3]) based in Kinshasa and various field offices. The P3 Operations Specialist position in Mbandaka has been vacant since its creation. The auditors noted the following:  •   There were overlaps between some of the tasks outlined in the ICU's terms of reference and those performed by the Implementation Partnership Management and Finance units. For example, according to the Country Office’s standard operating procedures, spot checks and audits are to be initiated by the Implementation Partnership Management unit and supervised by the Finance unit, although similar tasks are also included in the ICU's terms of reference. The ICU staff members neither participated in the planning process nor supervised spot checks or audits, although they had the competence and experience to do so.  •   Although one of the ICU's objectives was to advise management on financial and programmatic decisions, the unit did not participate in the Contract Review Committee (CRC), the Partnership Review Committee, or the Programme Management Team (PMT), where key decisions related to programmes, vendors, and partnerships are made. This lack of participation prevented the unit from assessing and mitigating potential risks associated with these contracts and agreements.  The audit team noted a lack of autonomy and a potential conflict of interest in the reporting structure of the ICU. The unit reports directly to the Deputy Representative of Operations, and this lack of autonomy and independence may impede the ICU's ability to  5   The Country Office informed the audit team that, in its 2025 Programme and Budget Review (PBR) submission, which was submitted after the completion of the draft audit report, the name of the Internal Control Unit (ICU) was changed to ‘Risk and Compliance.’ For the purposes of this audit report and related recommended actions, all references will be to the Internal Control Unit (ICU).

20  objectively assess the effectiveness of controls, and report any irregularities related to those processes.  Root cause(s): The gaps described above concerning office governance and management oversight can be attributed to the weak control environment and the failure of management to identify issues and, if necessary, sanction staff who fail to perform their responsibilities. Regarding the ICU observations, the root cause of those gaps can be attributed to the fact that it is not implicated in, or represented on, any of the Country Office’s management and strategic committees. Also, the ICU’s structure and composition, including relevant job descriptions, have not been revised since its creation in 2019.  3. Management of Third-party Consultants   High  While individual and institutional contract needs are assessed at the beginning of each year, the Country Office does not conduct a thorough human resource needs assessment and lacks a strategy for recruiting and managing consultants. This, combined with poor supervision and monitoring of consultants’ work, as well as inadequate support for completed work at the time of payment, creates a significant risk that the Country Office may be engaging too many consultants, paying for consultants who do not provide services to the Country Office, or that consultants may be underutilized or performing work that does not effectively support UNICEF programmes.  UNICEF relies on a versatile, mobile and responsible workforce to deliver results for children. Understanding workforce needs is critical to country office management and planning. Thus, each country office must periodically review its staffing to ensure it has an appropriate number of human resources with the proper skillset to implement the activities earmarked in the Country Programme Document (CPD).  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 2  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   In coordination with the West and Central Africa Regional Office (WCARO), establish a centralized framework for monitoring field office operations and other support functions.  ii.   In consultation with WCARO and the Chief Risk Officer, evaluate and revise the reporting structure and responsibilities of the Internal Control Unit (ICU) and address overlaps in responsibility between the ICU and Implementation Partnership Management.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Operations, Operations Manager Risk and Compliance, Chief PPM  Implementation Date: December 2025

21  During the period under audit, the Country Office spent approximately US$99 million on staff and US$30 million on third-party consultants. In February 2025, the Country Office had 444 staff, and it retained the services of 542 third-party consultants through two LTAs with human resources (HR) service providers to deliver its CPD. The auditors noted the following concerning the recruitment and management of those third-party consultants:  •   No strategy for recruiting consultants: While Country Office officials advised that individual and institutional contract needs are assessed at the beginning of each year, the Country Office did not complete a thorough human resources needs assessment and has no strategy for recruiting third-party consultants. Country Office officials advised the audit team that consultants were retained and deployed to field offices to assist with polio vaccination campaigns and to provide technical assistance to provincial health departments. Without a strategy or needs assessment, the audit team cannot determine where, when, and how many consultants were required and the specific role they were intended to play in delivering the CPD.  •   Absence of a Consultant Database: The Country Office did not maintain a list of all the third-party consultants it had retained. Instead, it relied on lists provided by the HR service providers. This creates significant risk for the office, particularly because it does not have a list of consultants who may or may not be interacting with beneficiaries on behalf of UNICEF. Also, it does not know where the consultants are located at any given time. The Country Office advised the audit team that a database is being developed. However, it was not finalized at the time of the audit field work. The Country Office must maintain a complete and accurate list of third-party consultants; without this, there is an elevated risk of fraud, or they may be unable to trace consultants who commit sexual exploitation and abuse.  •   Monitoring of consultants: While the activities to be performed by third-party consultants were outlined in their terms of reference (ToRs) signed with the HR service providers, consultants were sent to field offices without clearly defined deliverables and key performance indicators (KPIs). The ToRs with the service providers only referenced the deliverables for the providers themselves and not the individual consultants' performance metrics and expected results. The consultants’ work was not sufficiently supervised. For example, the Chiefs from the four field offices informed the auditors that they were not informed of the consultants or their work. Without this information, performance metrics or regular supervision and monitoring, the Country Office has struggled to effectively assess the overall value and impact of the consultants’ work.  •   Payment of consultants: The audit team identified paid invoices from service providers for consultant services unsupported by any timesheets or deliverables, such as reports. This, coupled with the gaps in identifiying the need for third-party

22  consultants, the weaknesses in delineating their deliverables, and the poor monitoring and supervision of their work, creates a significant risk that the Country Office might be paying too many consultants, or that they might be underutilized or performing work that does not support UNICEF programmes.  Root cause(s): Root causes include insufficient oversight of the work of third-party consultants by the Country Office management. The lack of coordination between the Country Office and its field offices concerning the needs and activities of the consultants also is a factor. Other causes include ineffective planning and the failure of the Country Office to communicate to the consultants the expected deliverables or KPIs, and inadequate supervision and monitoring of the consultants’ work.  4. Construction Contracts   High  Some construction projects were not planned and executed on time within the grant validity period. There was a lack of information on the extent and value of indirect construction projects executed by implementing partners. Implementing partners received construction projects that exceeded the recommended thresholds, and their construction capacities were not assessed before projects were assigned to them.  Ineffective planning and a lack of information on indirect constructions limited the Country Office’s oversight and monitoring of these projects and exposes UNICEF to reputational, financial and operational risks such as inadequate or incomplete construction.  During the period under audit, the Country Office spent US$20.5 million on the direct construction of schools, boreholes and latrines by service vendors. Through interviews  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 3  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Develop a strategy, including a needs assessment, concerning the recruitment of consultants and the delivery of their work.  ii.   Create a database of all third-party consultants and ensure it is regularly reviewed and updated.  iii.   Establish clear deliverables and key performance indicators (KPIs) for consultants and ensure that the work performed by each consultant is effectively supervised and monitored.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Programmes, Deputy Representative Operations, Chiefs of Section  Implementation Date: December 2025

23  and review of programme documents and FACE forms, the audit team noted that money was transferred to implementing partners to rehabilitate and construct schools and boreholes. However, the Country Office did not track these payments and was therefore unable to specify amounts transferred to implementing partners for the projects. The audit team also noted the following:  •   Planning and execution of construction projects: The UNICEF Procedure on Construction Projects requires country offices to have adequate resource capacity, accountabilities, processes, and a monitoring framework to efficiently plan, manage, and oversee complex and high-risk construction projects. The audit team reviewed the Country Office’s direct construction portfolio and noted 13 construction projects, totalling US$9.9 million, that were delayed and extended beyond the grant expiration periods. For instance, as of February 2025, the construction of 26 schools and 12 latrines in various provinces was still ongoing, although the grants had expired in July 2024. An additional six construction projects, valued at US$1.6 million, were still in progress when the grants were set to expire between February and April 2025. Country Office officials explained that this was partly due to lengthy discussions with the Government over construction sites, along with challenges related to accessibility. However, there was no evidence that these delays had been escalated to the West and Central Africa Regional Office (WCARO) and the Supply Division. These delays expose UNICEF to programmatic, reputational and financial risk should the project not be completed.  The auditors also found that two of the six schools they visited in Kinshasa province were constructed without proper feasibility studies or mitigation measures to ensure adequate air circulation and prevent flooding from damaging the structures. For example, one school was built within a residential area, lacking sufficient access for students to circulate and without proper escape routes in case of a fire. Another school was constructed in a swampy area without adequate measures to prevent floodwaters from damaging the structure. The audit team requested but did not receive evidence from the Country Office that feasibility studies were conducted before construction began on these projects. This failure could result in wasted resources (due to inadequate planning) and reputational risk to UNICEF.  •   Indirect construction: The Country Office’s construction unit did not have an adequate overview of construction projects completed by implementing partners. For example, in response to the auditor's request for documents, the Country Office reported US$2.6 million as the total construction expenditure through implementing partners. However, through a review of sample FACE forms and discussions with four implementing partners, the audit team identified approximately US$6.7 million in indirect construction costs not captured in the office tracking sheet for indirect construction. The audit team was informed that

24  programme sections did not systematically inform the construction unit about projects carried out through implementing partners. As a result, there was limited, and in some cases, no monitoring of these construction projects, which created a risk of non-completion or inadequate work.  According to UNICEF procedures for construction projects, construction projects implemented by a Civil Society Organization (CSO) should be limited to US$100,000 in a calendar year, and   the   construction capacities must be assessed before assigning them. The Country Office awarded construction projects to nine CSOs that exceeded this threshold, with some of them receiving projects greater than US$3 million. While the Supply Division had granted an exception waiver for the Country Office to exceed the limit for four of the CSOs, the audit team did not receive justifications for the remaining five implementing partners. The audit team also noted that the Country Office did not assess the technical capacity of implementing partners before allocating construction projects to them.  The lack of complete and centrally available information on the extent and value of indirect construction projects, combined with the lack of assessment of implementing partners’ construction capacities, poses operational and financial risks to UNICEF, hindering effective project monitoring and oversight, thus increasing vulnerability to fraud.  •   Construction risk assessment and monitoring: Construction risks were not included in the Country Office’s risk register, and there was no risk assessment for indirect construction implementation. This monitoring is essential to ensure that construction projects are executed as planned and that delays and defects are promptly identified and corrected.  Root cause(s): The gaps identified above can be attributed to senior management’s failure to adequately oversee these projects, limited planning concerning construction activities, and planning bottlenecks within government ministries. Other gaps identified included limited coordination between programme sections and the construction unit over indirect constructions   ,   and a lack of centrally available information on the extent and value of indirect construction. There was also insufficient monitoring of construction policy, procedures and guidance by the policyholders.  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 4  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Improve construction planning and oversight by ensuring contracts are issued promptly, and that construction projects are monitored, and completed within the grant validity periods.

25  5. Supply Planning   Medium  Although UNICEF considers procurement planning a key control to help achieve economy and efficiency and avoid waste in the procurement and distribution of supplies, the Country Office did not have an adequate process to regularly review and revise the approved Supply Plan to reflect changes in stock levels and needs. Supplies pre-positioned at partners’ warehouses were not considered when the Country Office developed its subsequent plans. These procurement planning gaps expose the Country Office and UNICEF to the risk of waste, misuse and reputational damage.  The UNICEF Procedure on Supply Strategy and Planning requires country offices to prepare an annual plan for purchasing supplies and services for use in programme implementation, considering the supplies inventory and orders not yet delivered. The procedures further state that offices should regularly review and update supply plans to accommodate needs and stock level changes. The audit team noted the following:  •   Differences between Supply Plan and actual procurement: In the two years from January 2023 to December 2024, the Country Office procured supplies worth US$115.5 million. These purchases were based on the 2023 and 2024 annual supply plans. In assessing the actual procurement against the plan, the audit team noted that the actual procurement of some programme sections for 2024 was significantly above the approved Supply Plan, with the overall variance exceeding the Supply Plan by US$15 million. Table 1 below shows the comparison.  ii.   Improve coordination and information sharing between programme sections and the construction unit, and establish a mechanism to track all construction projects allocated to implementing partners.  iii.   Ensure that technical capacity assessments of implementing partners are conducted before awarding construction projects to them and that contract amounts are within the threshold provided by UNICEF construction procedures.  iv.   Ensure that adequate feasibility studies and project designs are conducted before construction contracts are signed.  Staff Responsible: Representative, Construction Manager, Chief Planning & Monitoring, Deputy Representative Programmes, Operations Manager - Risk & Compliance  Implementation Date: March 2026

26  Table1: Comparison of actual supply procurement to planned for 2024  Programme Section   Planned (US$)   Actual (US$)   Difference (US$)   % Change  HEALTH   3,799,825   18,453,098.18   (14,653,273)   -386%  NUTRITION   4,218,680   16,103,230.52   (11,884,551)   -282%  WASH   6,490,339   2,112,701.62   4,377,637   67%  EDUCATION   4,116,685   2,505,834.53   1,610,851   39%  CHILD PROTECTION   381,660   421,373.73   (39,713)   -10%  SOCIAL INCLUSION   23,040,795   16,398,420.25   6,642,375   29%  OTHERS   1,896,753   3,466,051.35   (1,569,298)   -83%  TOTAL   43,944,738   59,460,710   (15,515,972)   -35%  The audit team recognizes that deviation from a plan can occur, no matter how carefully developed the plan is. This is particularly relevant to the DRC, which experienced multiple emergencies during the period under review. Despite this consideration, the Country Office did not have an adequate process to ensure regular review and revision of the approved Supply Plan to reflect changes in stock levels and needs. Country Office staff explained that the Supply Plan is reviewed at mid-year. However, the audit team only received one of the two mid-year reviews from the period under audit, and could not confirm the accuracy or thoroughness of the review that was completed. Therefore, there is a significant risk that the Country Office was procuring supplies based on obsolete and out-of-date plans. The failure to regularly review the supply plan exposes the Country Office to the risk that it might purchase supplies that are not needed, resulting in waste and potential misuse.  •   Supplies pre-positioned at implementing partners' warehouses: While assessing the Country Office’s Supply Plans, the audit team noted that supplies pre- positioned at implementing partners' warehouses and unused supplies were not considered when establishing subsequent supply plans. For example, at the end of 2023, the Country Office had US$11.4 million in pre-positioned supplies at implementing partners' warehouses, but those supplies were not considered in the subsequent 2024 Supply Plan. The audit team was advised by Country Office management that they do not consider these balances in their subsequent procurement plans because they are considered used when supplies are delivered to implementing partners. This risk is that the Country Office will purchase more supplies than required.  Root cause(s): The audit team attributed the above gaps to UNICEF’s unclear policy and procedures over supplies pre-positioned at implementing partners' warehouses and inadequate review and revision of the approved Supply Plan to reflect changes in stock levels and needs. An advisory audit on pre-positioned supplies has recently been concluded, and recommendations relevant to the policy are included in the respective report and addressed to the appropriate business owners.

27  6. Transfer and Monitoring of Programme Supplies   High  The Country Office transferred supplies to implementing partners above approved supplies budgets established in the programme documents. It did not assess the capacity of all implementing partners to manage and control these supplies. While micro- assessments of implementing partners were completed, the Country Office did not conduct a logistics capacity assessment of all implementing partners receiving supplies to ensure they can manage and control those supplies. This increases the risk of entrusting supplies to implementing partners who lack the necessary capacity needed to safeguard them from loss or misuse and promptly distribute them to the intended end-users.  Insufficient end-user monitoring, combined with weak inventory management controls, limits the Country Office’s ability to obtain assurance that the final beneficiaries received supplies transferred by the Country Office.  Between January 2023 and December 2024, the Country Office transferred supplies worth US$107 million—US$45.3 million from Country Office warehouses and US$61.7 million directly from vendors—to implementing partners. The audit team assessed the controls surrounding the transfer of those supplies, warehousing, and supply monitoring as follows:  •   Supplies transferred to Civil Society Organization (CSO) partners above the established budget in the programme documents: According to the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook, the transfer of supplies to implementing partners should align with the budget outlined in the programme documents. The audit team found that the Country Office transferred supplies to 10 CSO partners, exceeding the programme document's approved supply budgets by more than US$8 million. For example, one partner received US$2.4 million more in supplies than was approved in the programme documents. The Country Office officials advised the auditors that the programme document had been amended. Those  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 5  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Develop an agile process that requires the Supply Plan to be regularly reviewed and revised to reflect changes in stock levels and needs, appropriately approved by the Country Management Team, and ensure supplies are procured according to the latest approved supply plans.  ii.   Ensure that supplies pre-positioned at implementing partners’ warehouses are tracked and considered in subsequent supply planning.  Staff Responsible: Chief of Supply, Deputy Representative Programme, Section Heads Implementation Date: March 2026

28  updates were not reflected in the system. Transferring supplies to implementing partners beyond their approved budgets increases the risk of fraud and misuse if the supplies are not supported by beneficiary needs.  •   Partners' warehouse capacity assessments: The Country Office did not systematically assess implementing partners' warehouse and logistics capacities as required by the Programme Implementation Handbook before transferring supplies to them. These warehouse assessments help the Country Office confirm that the facility can safely store the volume of supplies before they are transferred. The Country Office only began evaluating partners' warehouses after a fire incident in May 2024, but at the time of the audit fieldwork, not all partners had been assessed. Without these assessments, there is an elevated risk of theft of supplies and damage to supplies from inadequate storage facilities.  •   Insufficient insurance coverage on supplies transferred to implementing partners: Seven of the eight sample CSO partners who received supplies of at least US$1 million (for a total amount of US$30.3 million between January 2023 and December 2024) confirmed that they did not have insurance coverage for the supplies transferred to them despite the programme documents signed with the Country Office requiring them to do so. This was particularly concerning, as one of the seven implementing partners' warehouses without insurance, containing UNICEF supplies worth US$855,000, was destroyed by fire in May 2024. Although the implementing partner did not have insurance, the audit team observed that it had received funds to cover the cost of the required insurance from the Country Office. Not surprisingly, as of the time of the audit fieldwork, the Country Office had not yet received reimbursement for the lost supplies. Transferring supplies to implementing partners without insurance creates additional risk for UNICEF in the event that the supplies are destroyed, lost or stolen.  •   Weak inventory management controls: Despite receiving management support fees from the Country Office to support their work, and having 7 per cent of their PDs’ budgets allocated to capacity building and system strengthening, all eight CSO implementing partners reviewed by the audit team managed a significant volume of their supplies using Excel spreadsheets, rather than with an inventory management software. The auditors expected that the implementing partners would have invested some of the management support fees in a more reliable inventory management software. Without a corporate system or a solution for less sophisticated implementing partners, inventory management controls remain weak. This is a concern that OIAI has raised for several years. These less sophisticated solutions expose the Country Office to the risk of being unable to effectively track and account for supplies, from their receipt to their distribution to project beneficiaries, thus hindering the detection and reporting of potential losses or theft.

29  Supplies Monitoring and End-user Monitoring (SEUM): The UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook mandates end-user monitoring to ensure that supplies transferred to implementing partners have been delivered to beneficiaries or used for intended purposes. The audit team noted inconsistent application of SEUM within the Country Office. While the Nutrition section monitored supplies during programmatic visits and end-user monitoring (EUM), this process was inconsistent across the other programme sections. For example, the Country Office did not conduct programmatic visits for 17 implementing partners who received supplies totalling US$7.9 million. For programmatic visits that were conducted, the audit team reviewed 20 of the 48 reports for implementing partners that received supplies from sections other than Nutrition and found no evidence to support that supplies were adequately monitored during those programmatic visits. The reports did not indicate the amount of supplies received, supplies already distributed to beneficiaries, and the balance remaining in the implementing partners’ warehouses. Insufficient supplies monitoring and weak inventory management controls limit the Country Office’s ability to obtain assurance that supplies transferred by the Country Office were received by the final beneficiaries or were used for the intended purposes.  Root cause(s): The gaps described above can be attributed to security challenges and accessibility constraints, which restrict staff from visiting some implementing partners. They also noted that the VISION supplies module does not have controls to prevent programme officers from creating release or purchase orders above the approved budget. The final cause was insufficient follow-up and compliance checks of programme documents signed with implementing partners by management.  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 6  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Assess warehouse and logistics capacity of implementing partners receiving supplies from the Country Office, and confirm and document that they have sufficient and current insurance coverage before releasing supplies.  ii.   Cease transferring supplies to implementing partners above the approved budgets.  iii.   Follow up with the implementing partner and obtain reimbursement for the supplies destroyed during the fire incident.  iv.   Fully implement the supply end-user monitoring (SEUM) approach developed by the Nutrition section, systematize it, and implement it across all programme sections to ensure that supplies will be effectively monitored during programmatic visits.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Operations, Chief of Supply, Chief Planning & Monitoring, Operations Manager - Risk & Compliance  Implementation Date: June 2026

30  7. Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)   High  The Country Office did not conduct a thorough PSEA risk assessment as part of its Country Office Risk Assessment. No action points were established for those identified risks. The Country Office did not consistently monitor PSEA during programmatic visits to implementing partners, resulting in significant gaps in this critical monitoring. These risk assessment and monitoring weaknesses, combined with gaps in the monitoring of PSEA training, increase the risk that the Country Office will not effectively manage PSEA risks or that SEA incidents will not be promptly reported.  UNICEF has an ethical responsibility to protect vulnerable populations, and it has a zero tolerance for sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA). One critical control in support of this obligation is to conduct annual PSEA risk assessments for all implementing partners. PSEA assessments are used to determine a prospective civil society organization (CSO) partner’s capacity to prevent and respond to sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA) and its level of SEA risk. Other controls helping UNICEF meet this obligation are providing PSEA training to all staff, consultants and implementing partners, and ensuring that beneficiaries know how to report potential abuse.  At the time of audit fieldwork, the Country Office had five CSO partners with high PSEA ratings and six with medium PSEA ratings. The audit team assessed whether the Country Office’s PSEA controls were adequate and operating effectively to support UNICEF’s zero- tolerance policy for SEA. The following was noted:  •   PSEA risk assessments: Country offices are required to conduct an annual PSEA risk assessment with clear mitigants to address any identified risks. The Country Office risk register included two PSEA risks, with residual risk assessed as low. This assessment was made despite 32 PSEA investigations, of which seven were open, multiple emergencies, and population displacement. While the risk register includes a list of controls that are in place to address the SEA risk, such as training and complaint mechanisms, it fails to evaluate the effectiveness of those controls, resulting in gaps, for example, inadequate follow-up on the completion of required training. There are no action points for any of the PSEA risks. Given the context in which the Country Office operates, a more thorough assessment of SEA risks and the design and implementation of SEA prevention controls is necessary.  •   PSEA monitoring: The Country Office conducts PSEA monitoring of CSOs through programmatic visits. The Country Office did not perform any programmatic visits of 13 CSO partners, including three with high PSEA risk ratings and two with medium risk ratings. For those programmatic visits that were initiated since 1 January 2023, 32 per cent remained incomplete during the audit fieldwork in February 2025.

31  Upon testing a completed programmatic visit report, which indicated that PSEA monitoring was conducted, the audit team found that the conclusions were generally poorly documented. For example, one programmatic visit report identified that beneficiaries lacked knowledge of PSEA reporting mechanisms. No action point to address this deficiency was recorded.  •   PSEA training: Another effective way to help UNICEF meet its zero tolerance for SEA is to provide PSEA training to all staff, consultants and implementing partners who directly interact with beneficiaries or affected communities. This training ensures that UNICEF has equipped these individuals with the knowledge to prevent, respond to, and report on sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA). The Country Office provides PSEA training sessions to implementing partners, vendors and consultants. While attendance at these training sessions is recorded, the Country Office was unable to provide the audit team with any reconciliation to confirm that all persons requiring this training attended the training. The Country Office did not have a system to follow up on those who did not participate in training as required. One significant gap concerned consultant training. As noted in a preceding section, the Country Office did not maintain a database of all the third- party consultants it had retained. Consequently, it could not easily identify consultants requiring this training. As noted, the Country Office is in the process of developing a consultant database, but it was not finalized at the time of the audit field work. Inadequate monitoring of PSEA training attendance can significantly hinder the Country Office’s efforts to support UNICEF’s zero-tolerance for SEA, and could lead to a loss of trust among beneficiaries and the communities served, ultimately damaging UNICEF's reputation.  •   PSEA Reporting Hotline not functioning: During the fieldwork phase in February 2025, the audit team was told that the UN inter-agency PSEA Reporting Hotline, which provides service to multiple agencies, including UNICEF, had been non- functional since January due to a lack of funding. The Reporting Hotline is an essential avenue for beneficiaries to report abuse. This issue was not promptly escalated to UNICEF, as the agency managing the Reporting Hotline failed to inform other agencies in a timely manner. This delay in communication resulted in a prolonged period during which the PSEA Reporting Hotline was unavailable, potentially impacting beneficiary reporting and UNICEF’s response. The Country Office informed the audit team that the hotline was operational again from 1 April 2025.  Root cause(s): Root causes include inadequate and insufficient monitoring by the Country Office of implementing partners adherenece to PSEA requirements. Also, there is limited management oversight of PSEA training to implementing partners and vendors, and a lack of a thorough PSEA risk assessment to support the design and implementation of prevention controls.

32  8. Partnership Management   High  There were delays in finalizing programme documents with Civil Society Organization (CSO) implementing partners and releasing funds to implement the activities assigned to them. The Country Office did not provide sufficient justification for the direct selection of partners. This, combined with insufficient partner background checks, exposes the Country Office to the risk that qualified implementing partners may not have been selected in support of UNICEF obtaining the best value for money.  From January 2023 to December 2024, the Country Office worked with 323 implementing partners, including 217 government partners and 106 CSO partners. The Country Office also had 334 new partnership agreements, including 132 programme documents and 202 humanitarian programme documents. The audit team noted the following:  •   Due diligence and selection of partners: According to the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook, country offices should, by default, use the open selection method to select CSO partners to work with. Direct selection should only be used in rare circumstances, and the reasons for such selection should be sufficiently justified. While the audit team acknowledges the approach used by the Country Office to build a pool of CSO implementing partners through a Notice of Expression of Interest, there was insufficient justification for the direct selection of implementing partners in five of the seven programme documents reviewed.  Country offices must review the suitability of any CSO implementing partners, verified through the UN Partnership Portal (UNPP) for technical, financial and other strategic factors. The Country Office did not conduct additional background checks  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 7  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Ensure all necessary annual PSEA Risk Assessments are completed, and include a thorough assessment of SEA risks and the design and implementation of SEA prevention controls.  ii.   Strengthen mechanisms to monitor and ensure SEA risk mitigation measures are fully implemented, including PSEA training for implementing partners and third- party consultants.  Staff Responsible: Programme Manager PSEA, Operations Manager - Risk & Compliance  Implementation Date: December 2025

33  to verify the accuracy of information submitted by implementing partners through the UNPP. These additional checks are essential, especially in the context of the Country Office, where the risk of fraud is assessed to be high. Although the Country Office acknowledged the risk context in the DRC, the audit team was informed that the Country Office was reluctant to go beyond the minimum due diligence required in the UNPP due to a heavy workload and competing priorities. Insufficient due diligence and improper justification for the direct selection of implementing partners expose the Country Office to heightened risk of fraud and reputational risk.  •   Development of Programme Documents: The UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook requires country offices to initiate and finalize programme documents (PDs) and humanitarian programme documents (HPDs) within 45 and 15 working days, respectively. The audit team found that 35 per cent, or 47 out of 132 PDs completed during the period under review, were not signed within the required timeline, with three of them signed more than 100 working days after submission. Similarly, 42 per cent, or 90 out of 202 HPDs completed during the period under review, were signed after the 15-day deadline, with nine signed 60 working days after submission. Country Office officials advised that the number of days to signature was calculated from the submission in the system by the programme sections, rather than by the implementing partners. This practice does not align with UNICEF guidelines and thus causes significant discrepancies. While the Country Office explained that start-up letters are typically used to quickly initiate UNICEF’s implementation during emergencies, their use is limited to US$50,000 per partner in L3 emergencies and a maximum of US$1 million per Country Office. Timely completion of programme documents is critical, especially in an emergency context such as DRC, where funds should be released to implementing partners promptly for emergency response.  •   Review of Partners' work: Implementing partners are required by the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook to submit quarterly progress reports using the eTools Partner Reporting Portal (PRP) 6   or, for those partners without internet access, via paper forms uploaded in eTools. These reports are expected to include the progress of planned activities and the implementation of PSEA measures. While the Country Office stated that it regularly reviewed the quarterly progress reports of implementing partners, these reports were not always promptly received by the Country Office. For example, despite several reminders by the Country Office’s Programme Monitoring unit to various programme sections, 233 (27.7 per cent) of the mandatory humanitarian reports and 296 (43.5 per cent) of the quarterly reports were overdue as of 28 February 2025. These reporting gaps and delays  6   The Partner Reporting Portal is an online platform enabling civil society implementing partners to report progress against results jointly planned in partnerships with UNICEF. The portal is designed to increase programme efficiency and reduce the burden on partners by streamlining the reporting process.

34  make it challenging for the Country Office to know the progress of implementing activities and to substantiate the results to Headquarters and donors.  Root cause(s): The root cause can be attributed to insufficient monitoring and follow-up of implementing partners' compliance requirements and the Country Office's inability to surpass the minimum due diligence requirements in UNPP. Another potential root cause could be the lengthy review process for partnership documents, which was further delayed by multiple emergencies.  9. Cash Transfers to Implementing Partners   High  Despite the high-risk ratings of implementing partners, outstanding cash transfers, as well as ineligible expenses, the Country Office continues to use direct cash transfers, thus increasing the risk of delays in liquidating cash and diversion of funds. Cash transfers of US$2.6 million were outstanding for over six months, with more than US$731,000 aged for over two years. There were delays in processing FACE forms, and the Country Office did not release funds promptly to the implementing partners, which elevates the risk that programme activities will not be implemented within the grant validity period.  In 2023 and 2024, the Country Office transferred approximately US$256 million to 323 implementing partners, 7   of which 47 per cent were assessed with significant or high risk  7   A total of 106 of which were CSO partners (US$128.4 million) and 217 of which were government partners (US$127.0 million).  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 8  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Establish efficient and effective review processes that mandate the prompt completion of partnership agreements and release of funds to implementing partners.  ii.   Expand due diligence checks to provide greater assurance of the integrity of potential implementing partners, document the results and the reasons that support value-for-money in the selection of implementing partners.  iii.   Strengthen monitoring of implementing partners' activities to ensure that they comply with obligations agreed in programme documents.  iv.   Implement mechanisms to ensure that implementing partners’ quarterly progress reports and mandatory humanitarian reports are submitted and reviewed promptly.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Programmes, Chief Planning & Monitoring, Operations Manager – Risk & Compliance, Chief Financial Officer, Section Chiefs  Implementation Date: September 2025

35  ratings. The audit team assessed controls over cash transfers to implementing partners and noted the following:  •   Cash Transfer Modality: According to UNICEF procedures, implementing partners assessed as significant or high-risk, country offices must use direct payment or reimbursement cash transfer modalities or a blend of reimbursements, direct payments, and direct cash transfers for large purchases of goods or services. The Country Office continues to use the direct cash transfer modality despite 47 per cent of implementing partners having significant and high-risk ratings, outstanding direct cash transfer, and significant ineligible expenses. For example, more than 88 per cent of US$256 million in cash transfers made during the audited period were through direct cash transfers, 33 per cent of which were transferred to implementing partners with significant and high risk ratings.  The audit team also noted that the Country Office continued to transfer cash to implementing partners with high amounts of ineligible expenses. For example, during the audited period, 121 partners with outstanding ineligible expenses totalling US$13.5 million had received US$174.4 million in cash transfers in the audited period, 113 of which were direct cash transfer modalities. According to the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook, country offices may freeze all disbursements to an implementing partner having ineligible expenses until the actual refund is made. The Country Office has not exercised this option to reduce its risk exposure to ineligible expenses and outstanding cash transfers.  •   Processing of Funding Authorization and Certificate Expenditure (FACE) forms: To ensure the timely implementation of programme activities, according to the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook, country offices must disburse cash to implementing partners no later than 14 calendar days from receipt of adequately completed FACE forms. The audit team found that 115 of 1,397 FACE forms in 2023 and 106 of 1,350 FACE in 2024 were not processed on time. For example, funds for the orientation of provincial health divisions on key health issues were released 108 days after receipt of the FACE form. The audit team selected 25 FACE forms processed in 2024 for testing. Testing revealed that 11 were registered with received dates later than those evidenced by the physical signatures on the uploaded documents, with delays ranging from 3 to 18 days. This resulted in the Country Office being unable to track processing times adequately and rendering the KPI monitoring of the 14-day processing target inaccurate. The Country Office staff explained that these delays were caused by implementing partners not accurately preparing FACE forms and Direct Cash Transfers (DCT) that were outstanding with some of the partners. Delays in transferring funds to partners meant that the relevant interventions could not be identified and delivered promptly, and the Country Office was at risk of losing donors’ confidence and funding.

36  •   Processing of FACE forms toward grant expiration period: The Country Office did not adequately plan for or monitor grant expirations, resulting in 12.7 per cent of direct cash transfers totalling US$24 million being issued less than 90 days before the grants' expiration. Given the security challenges and accessibility constraints in the DRC, there is a risk that programme activities will not be executed before the grants expire.  •   Outstanding Cash Transfers: As of 31 December 2024, cash transfers of US$2.6 million were outstanding for over six months, with more than US$731,000 outstanding for over two years. This again raises concerns about the adequacy of management oversight and follow-up on cash transfers to implementing partners. Delays in liquidating cash transfers may indicate that programme activities have not been implemented as planned, and could increase the risk of fund misappropriation or diversion.  Root cause(s): The gaps described above can be attributed to implementing partners' outstanding direct cash transfers and capacity constraints, and FACE forms being incorrectly prepared, which resulted in multiple corrections. Another root cause is insufficient follow-up and oversight on funds transfers to implementing partners.  The audit team initially recommended that the Country Office consider using alternative cash transfer modalities to minimize the risk of implementing partners failing to liquidate cash transfers on time and reduce the likelihood of ineligible expenses. The Country Office advised the audit team that, due to the operating context in DRC, the use of direct payment or reimbursement cash transfer modalities is unfeasible.  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 9  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Ensure that all implementing partners are trained on how to complete FACE forms, and enhance monitoring controls to ensure that the details are accurately recorded in the FACE forms.  ii.   Monitor and ensure that grant funds are spent and accounted for within the grant periods agreed with donors.  iii.   Increase follow-up and oversight of funds transfer to partners to ensure that activities are implemented and funds liquidated on time.  Staff Responsible: Chief Planning & Monitoring, Operations Manager – Risk & Compliance  Implementation Date: March 2026

37  10. Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT)  Assurance Activities   High  In 2024, the Country Office did not complete spot checks for 40 partners who liquidated cash totalling US$9.7 million, and there were no programmatic visits for 43 partners who received cash transfers amounting to US$8.9 million and supplies worth US$7.9 million. This insufficient attention to assurance activities meant that the Country Office did not obtain the necessary certainty that its implementing partners were using the funds for their intended purposes. The Country Office did not have assurance that activities were being implemented according to the relevant programme documents, and that the risks of fraud, waste, abuse and inefficiency related to cash transferred to partners were being effectively managed. Ineligible expenses totalling US$13.4 million were outstanding as of December 2024, with 81 per cent (US$10.8 million) being overdue for over three years.  Under the Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT) framework, UNICEF country offices must carry out assurance activities, including programme visits, spot checks and audits, to ensure implementing partners' proper use of cash transfers. The framework also requires timely, complete and accurate follow-up of financial findings from assurance activities. During the audited period, the Country Office completed 1,231 programme visits, 324 spot checks, and 84 audits, exceeding the minimum risk-based HACT assurance activity requirements. The audit team assessed the Country Office’s planning, execution, quality assurance and follow-up of assurance activities and noted the following areas for improvement:  •   Programmatic visits: The audit team found that, although the Country Office exceeded the minimum number of programmatic visits in 2024, 43 partners, who received cash transfers totalling US$8.9 million and supplies worth US$7.9 million, did not receive any programmatic visits. Two hundred fifteen of 672 programmatic visits (32 per cent) initiated since 1 January 2023 remained incomplete during the audit team's fieldwork visit. That said, the Country Office met its programmatic visits KPI targets for 2023 (100 per cent) and 2024 (114 per cent). Programmatic visits were not conducted based on the implementing partners’ risk ratings or the resources received. As a result, some partners received excessive programmatic visits, while others received none. For example, in 2024, a partner who received a cash transfer of US$1.3 million and was assessed as low-risk had seven programmatic visits, well above the minimum requirement of two. In contrast, a high-risk partner who received US$1.5 million had no programmatic visits. This issue was also noted in the OIAI 2022 audit report, which recommended centralizing the planning of programmatic visits to ensure a risk-based approach. Failure to conduct sufficient and timely programmatic visits and inadequate field monitoring reduce the Country Office’s ability to take corrective measures or make necessary adjustments to agreed activities.

38  •   Performance of spot checks: Spot checks provide assurance to the Country Office that cash transferred to implementing partners is used as planned. In 2024, 40 partners who liquidated cash amounting to US$9.7 million had no spot checks or audits. Although the Country Office met its KPI targets for 2023 (117 per cent) and 2024 (95 per cent), the audit team found that 117 out of 342 spot checks (34 per cent) initiated since 1 January 2023 had not been finalized by the time of the audit fieldwork. Failure to initiate required spot checks and the delay in completing others means the Country Office lacks adequate assurance that disbursed funds were used as intended. This reduces the likelihood of identifying and addressing any potential loss or misuse of funds.  •   Aged Ineligible Expenses: According to UNICEF guidance on the follow-up of financial findings from spot checks and audits, country offices are required to follow up on financial findings from assurance activities in a timely and accurate manner. The audit team noted that management's follow-up on ineligible expenses was ineffective. For example, as of December 2024, US$13.4 million in ineligible expenditures was outstanding across 171 implementing partners, as shown in Table 2.  Table 2: Total Ineligible Expenses (2019-2024) (US$).  The audit team noted that 81 per cent (US$10.8 million) of these amounts were aged over three years. The Country Office explained that many of the outstanding balances from 2019 and 2020 were due to internal recording errors in eTools. However, no analysis was conducted to identify amounts recorded in error as ineligible expenses. Country Office staff were unable to provide the audit team with evidence that they had contacted DFAM or DAPM regarding these aged ineligible expenses containing the recording errors, or that they had contacted implementing partners to recover these amounts. The Country Office also mentioned that some ineligible expenses had been returned, but these were not adequately recorded, and no details were provided regarding the amounts. The audit team identified that US$2.2 million   ,   representing 17 per cent of the total balance, was linked to reports still in the draft stage for both spot checks and audits. Further examination revealed that this discrepancy affects all UNICEF country offices, and OIAI is currently in discussion with DAPM to address the issue. Failure to follow up on previously

39  identified recording errors and the absence of a systematic tracking process to follow up and recover ineligible expenses increase the risk of fraud.  Root cause(s): The above gaps can be attributed to uncoordinated planning and inadequate supervision of assurance activities. This led to field offices planning and conducting programmatic visits in isolation, resulting in a lack of oversight at the Country Office level. Other root causes include insufficient follow-up on outstanding ineligible expenses with implementing partners; assurance activities not being conducted based on implementing partners’ risk rating; inaccurate calculation of assurance activities KPIs; and eTools incorrectly recording ineligible expenses from spot checks and audits whose reports were still in the draft stage, and implementing partners took extended periods to respond to draft observations and provide additional supporting documentation.  11. Cash Assistance Programmes   Medium  Beneficiaries’ mobile account numbers for one of the programmes were not verified and confirmed before making payments to them. Service providers distributing cash to beneficiaries lacked adequate liquidity to serve the affected communities, which resulted in beneficiaries paying a commission to local payment agents to ensure that they received their money in a timely manner. This, combined with inadequate grievance oversight, exposes the Country Office to the risk of payment errors, reduced accountability, and weakened programme impact.  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 10  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Strengthen assurance activities by applying all elements of the HACT framework and strengthening oversight and coordination of the planning process to ensure it is based on a risk-based assurance model that considers partners’ risk rating.  ii.   Analyse ineligible expenses to identify those containing errors and those that cannot realistically be recovered, and consult the Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM) and the Division of Data, Analytics, Planning and Monitoring (DAPM) for guidance on write-off.  iii.   Take all necessary steps to recover outstanding ineligible expenses from implementing partners.  Staff Responsible: Operations Manager - Risk & Compliance, Section Chiefs, Chiefs of Field Offices, Deputy Representative Operations  Implementation Date: December 2025

40  Social cash transfer programmes provide vulnerable children, adolescents and their caregivers with financial support in the form of money (physical cash or e-cash) to meet their essential needs, often during humanitarian responses. From January 2023 to October 2024, the Country Office disbursed approximately US$3.3 million to individuals and households under different cash assistance programmes. During the same period, the Country Office also spent US$11.9 million to pay for incentive payments to frontline workers in vaccination campaigns. These programmes were decentralized to field offices, resulting in decreased oversight by the Country Office’s senior management and several control breakdowns, such as making advance payments being made to financial service providers without proper reconciliation, failure to validate the list of beneficiaries before making payment, and advanced payments being expensed yet remaining in the financial service provider’s wallet for more than five months with no movement. The above gaps led the Division of Financial and Administrative Management (DFAM) to instruct the Country Office in February 2024 to suspend all mobile cash payments until May 2024, to provide time to address the issues.  Following the gaps identified by DFAM in the mobile payment process, the Country Office decided to reorganize the system, which resulted in recruiting a new financial service provider under a global long term agreement (LTA) and launching an incentive payment pilot in two provinces. The following observations were noted:  •   Validation of the list of Frontline Health Workers: According to the Country Office standard operating procedures for the Payment of Incentives of Frontline workers, Prospective frontline health workers are identified by nurses and approved by head doctors in health centres based on the quota provided by the Ministry of Health. Once the list of prospective health workers reaches UNICEF and before processing the payments, the list is sent to the financial service provider for validation of the mobile account numbers of these frontline workers. The audit team noted that mobile account verification was not being done before payment once the new financial service provider was introduced. This was because the financial service provider being used did not allow for this process, and the Country Office did not have direct contract arrangements with the mobile network operators used by the financial service provider. While the Country Office visited one of two provinces to validate worker identities and monitor payments, the audit team found no evidence of similar visits being undertaken in the other province. Without such validation, there is a high risk of paying frontline health workers who do not exist or are not providing services to the communities. The Country Office advised that since the completion of the audit fieldwork, they have taken steps to improve the validation of the mobile account numbers of the frontline health workers. The audit team has not assessed those actions.  •   Liquidity issues with financial service providers: From a review of 13 field monitoring reports, the audit team noted in four reports that the financial service

41  provider distributing cash to beneficiaries at the time lacked adequate liquidity to serve the affected communities. This led beneficiaries to pay a commission to local payment agents to ensure that they received their money in a timely manner. The Country Office explained that this was due to liquidity issues in the country and that they had been working with the financial service provider to increase the number of official payment agents in the field. A tendering process was undertaken to identify new financial service providers in the country. Liquidity problems at the payment stage can increase instances where payment agents request commissions from beneficiaries, thus diminishing the programme's impact and creating a reputational risk to UNICEF.  •   Payment verification: The Country Office did not have standardized processes and tools to support payment verification. Programme officers verified payments to beneficiaries using the UNICEF RapidPro system, which automatically sends a text message to beneficiaries to confirm receipt of funds. Response rates were low due to low mobile connectivity, technological illiteracy, and issues with the system. To mitigate this, the Country Office performed payment verifications using different monitoring tools, which changed depending on the programme that was being monitored. The auditors found gaps in the monitoring process,including: monitoring reports lacking clarity on whether UNICEF staff members observed the payment; not using eTools to track actions; and post-distribution reports that were either not completed, incomplete or unclear about amounts received. Weaknesses in the payment verification process prevent the Country Office from directly confirming whether the beneficiary received their allocated amount, thus increasing the risk of potential fraud or financial mismanagement.  •   Grievance response mechanisms: It is good management practice for the Country Office to have established an effective grievance mechanism to support cash assistance to beneficiaries and incentive payments to frontline health workers. The audit team noted that there was no information on the timely management of complaints for the programmes that were managed outside of UNICEF’s HOPE system. The auditors requested the latest grievance logs for these programmes, but did not receive them and hence could not assess their effectiveness. To address these issues, the County Office planned to connect any remaining partners to HOPE so that complaints could be centralized in one place. However, this was not completed due to staff turnover in the UNICEF Cash Unit in 2024, the DFAM suspension of Cash Assistance payments, and the Mpox emergency.  The audit team reviewed various monitoring reports and found that they indicated that beneficiaries had limited awareness of grievance mechanisms. No reasons were provided to explain this limited awareness. Inadequate oversight over grievance mechanisms could lead to a lack of accountability to beneficiaries and a

42  failure to promptly or adequately respond to complaints, increasing UNICEF’s  exposure to fraud and reputational risk.  Root cause(s): The above gaps can be attributed to staff turnover in the UNICEF Cash Unit in 2024 and the Mpox emergency, insufficient oversight of cash incentives programmes implemented at field offices and inadequate due diligence of service providers selected.  12. Procurement of Goods and Services   High  Controls related to awarding contracts to vendors with existing long-term agreements (LTAs) were insufficient to prevent or detect fraud in the contract award process. This, combined with the lack of impartiality and confidentiality declarations by staff conducting tender evaluations, as well as gaps in the invoice certification process and contract closure, exposes the Country Office to the risk of fraud.  From January 2023 to December 2024, the Country Office established 3,833 contracts valued at US$202 million to purchase goods and services, including US$48.7 million in locally procured goods. The audit team sought to verify whether adequate controls were in place around awarding those contracts, specifically whether there were controls to effectively manage the risk of fraud related to vendor selection, receipt of services, certification of payments, and contract conclusion. This included a review of 20 contracts related to third-party consultants, 22 local procurement contracts and 10 contracts related to transport and customs brokerage. The following is noted:  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 11  The DRC Country Office should:  i)  ii)  iv)  Strengthen the process for validating health workers’ mobile numbers before  rendering payment to them.  Enhance due diligence and capacity assessment of financial services providers to ensure those selected have broad coverage and sufficient liquidity to serve selected beneficiaries.  Standardize the payment verification process for all cash assistance programmes to ensure beneficiaries receive their allocated funds. Assess how to streamline different channels of grievance mechanisms,  reinforcing accountabilities, and raising awareness of grievance mechanisms  among beneficiaries.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Operations, Deputy Representative Programmes, Programme Specialist Cash Transfer, Chief Administration & Finance  Implementation Date: March 2026

43  •   Vendor selection and award of contracts: During the period under review, the Country Office signed multiple Long-Term Agreements (LTAs) with vendors to provide goods and services. Although the CRC reviews were followed, the controls for awarding contracts to vendors with existing LTAs were insufficient to prevent or detect fraud in the contract award process. This resulted in a concentration of contracts with specific vendors. For example, in one service category, a single vendor received 92 per cent of the total contracts, while other vendors received only 8 per cent. The Country Office explained that the contracts were awarded based on the lowest-cost criterion, following a comparison of financial offers from both vendors. However, the audit team did not find this justification sufficient, given that 92 per cent of the contracts were awarded to a single vendor, and the financial offers across all 22 reviewed contracts showed only marginal differences. The audit team also noted that financial offers from these two vendors were sent to staff members’ work email addresses instead of the Country Office’s secured email system for receiving tenders. Without appropriate controls to secure the contract award process, the Country Office is exposed to an increased risk of fraud, particularly staff members leaking financial offer information for personal gain.  Relatedly, in conducting their review of contract awards, the audit team found that the contracts' Terms of Reference, containing the contract budget, were sent to service providers. This provided the service providers with information on thresholds, thus limiting the Country Office's ability to achieve value for money in the services and goods procured. Staff members responsible for conducting technical evaluations of tenders did not always complete the Declaration of Impartiality and Confidentiality, as required by the UNICEF Procedures for Managing and Evaluating Tenders. This increases the risk of fraud and kickbacks in the procurement process.  •   Purchase orders towards grant expiration period: The audit team found that approximately 5.2 per cent (US$11.7 million) of purchase orders were placed less than 90 days before the grant expiration. Five contracts, totalling US$375,222, were related to construction projects. This poses a significant risk that the Country Office may not receive the goods and services before the grants expire.  •   Invoice certification and supporting documentation: According to UNICEF’s Procedures on Contract Management, vendor payments should only be made based on supporting documents that confirm the receipt of goods, works, or services, and against an invoice from the vendor. The Country Office did not effectively apply this control. A sample of 60 invoices reviewed by the audit team did not include supporting documents in VISION confirming proof of service delivery, yet the invoices were certified and paid. The audit team was told this occurred due to a misunderstanding regarding responsibilities between the service

44  requesters and the Country Office’s Finance unit. Staff members advised that the Finance team had the supporting documents for their invoices; however, this was not the case, as the Finance team was unable to provide the audit team with these supporting documents. Without this certification and supporting documents, there is an elevated risk that the Country Office might be paying for goods or services not received.  An additional issue identified was that no pre-inspections were conducted for US$48.7 million of supplies purchased locally and sent directly to implementing partners. These pre-inspections are necessary to ensure that goods delivered are of good quality and as per contract specifications.  •   Contract closure: UNICEF’s Procedures on Contract Management also require that buyers close all service contracts within 90 days of their end date of validity. As of 31 December 2024, there were 117 open purchase orders with unused balances totalling US$482,000, yet their contract validity end dates had expired more than 90 days before. Fifty-four of those purchase orders, totalling US$53,000, had been open for more than 700 days. As a result, there is a risk that fraudulent invoices could be processed against unused contract balances.  Root cause(s): The above gaps can be attributed to the Country Office’s insufficient oversight over the award of contracts, invoice processing and contract closure. Another root cause is inadequate planning of procurement activities.  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 12  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Strengthen and secure the contract award process by ensuring all communications concerning financial offers from vendors with existing Long- Term Agreements are exchanged only through the secured email.  ii.   Ensure that purchase orders are raised within the grant validity periods and that open purchase orders with expired validity end dates are closed promptly.  iii.   Strengthen the invoice certification process by ensuring that vendors' invoices are only certified and paid upon submission of complete supporting documents in VISION.  Staff Responsible: Chief of Supply, Chief Planning & Monitoring, Operations Manager - Risk & Compliance, Chief Administration & Finance  Implementation Date: March 2026

45  13. Travel Management   High  The Country Office did not have a travel plan that included the anticipated need for travel in line with its operations and programmes. The Country Office did not implement necessary controls or oversight to monitor staff travel days and associated costs. This resulted in some staff members accumulating significant in-country travel days and DSA amounts.  Between January 2023 and December 2024, the Country Office incurred US$11.4 million in staff travel expenses. The audit team assessed whether the Country Office has sufficient controls over travel management, particularly whether there is adequate management oversight of travel and whether data is accurate and travel expenses are adequately documented. The audit revealed the following:  •   Accuracy of staff travel data: Upon assessing data related to the Country Office’s travel, the audit team noted a difference of US$7.4 million between the US$11.5 million in staff travel costs presented in VISION and the US$4.1 million reported in the staff travel dashboard. According to DFAM this is due to some data mismatch between VISION and the Travel Dashboard. In exploring this issue further, it was determined that the discrepancy affects all UNICEF country offices. OIAI intends to address this issue in the upcoming Travel Management audit, which is expected to be completed in mid-2025. Country offices should be aware of this discrepancy. In assessing the travel data for a sample of 28 claims, the audit team found that approximately US$739,000 was recorded under staff travel that does not appear to be related to actual staff travel costs. Despite making multiple requests, the audit team did not receive an explanation of this discrepancy from the Country Office, and therefore could not identify if the expenses were legitimate or did not actually occur.  •   Management oversight of staff travel: Some staff members accumulated a significant number of in-country travel days and daily subsistence allowance (DSA) amounts during the period under review. In 2024, 28 staff members had trips exceeding 60 days, totalling US$364,000. For example, one staff member was on mission from 27 January to 30 June 2024 and accumulated DSA totalling US$45,611. The audit team also identified 60 staff members who had taken at least 24 trips (approximately two per month) in 2024, amounting to US$1.3 million. The travel days and costs noted above were primarily due to inadequate monitoring of staff travel expenses. Insufficient management oversight, compounded by the lack of a comprehensive Country Office travel plan, increases the risk of inefficiencies in managing staff travel, particularly concerning travel days and associated costs. The auditors also identified 411 in-country staff trips totalling US$2.3 million, and 168 international trips amounting to US$945,058, for which the purpose of these trips is listed as 'others' in the Fiori system. Without clearly identifying the purpose of

46  travel, there is a risk that individuals may misuse the organization's funds for personal travel.  Root cause(s): The above gaps can be attributed to insufficient management oversight of staff travel in the Country Office, compounded by the absence of a travel plan and reliable data to support decision-making and monitoring.  14. Asset Management   High  Assets owned by the Country Office and valued at approximately US$2.4 million were either declared missing (951), damaged (303) or obsolete (18). The Country Office was unable to provide the auditors with documentation to support these declarations. This, combined with a lack of inventory counts and monitoring of assets on loan to implementing partners, increases the risk of asset misappropriation.  As of February 2025, the Country Office had 3,163 assets valued at US$9.5 million. Of these, 951 (30 per cent) were declared missing, with an additional 303 (10 per cent) marked as damaged, and 18 deemed obsolete. The Country Office had 77 assets on loan to implementing partners. The audit team noted the following:  •   Lack of supporting documentation of assets declared missing, damaged and obsolete :   According to UNICEF Procedure on Impairment and Write-off of Property and Equipment, if a UNICEF asset is lost through negligence of a UNICEF staff member or implementing partner, the value equal to replacement of the asset  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 13  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Develop a travel plan that aligns with the Country Office travel needs and the field monitoring plan, and ensure that the plan is approved by senior management and Chiefs of Field Offices and periodically updated.  ii.   Strengthen senior management oversight over staff travel to ensure that the purpose, time, cost, and subsequent amendments are adequately supported and approved.  iii.   Conduct regular reviews of staff travel to ensure the accuracy and completeness of information in travel reports.  iv.   Conduct an analysis of the US$739,000 recorded under staff travel to determine the nature of the transactions and take appropriate actions to rectify.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Operations, Chief Administration & Finance, Operations Manager - Risk & Compliance  Implementation Date: March 2026

47  should be recovered from the staff member or implementing partner. A review of the Country Office Asset Account Report indicated that 951 assets valued at US$1.3 million, including 17 Toyota Land Cruisers (US$352,702), were declared as 'not found’, and an additional 18 assets, including 10 Toyota Land Cruisers valued at US$304,000, were classified as obsolete. A total of 303 assets, valued at US$748,000, including 10 Toyota Land Cruisers and two 50KVA generators, were declared damaged by the Country Office. The audit team reviewed the files of 13 damaged assets; however, despite repeated requests for an explanation or pictures showing the damage, in eight cases the Country Office could not provide this evidence.  Although the above assets were submitted to the Property Survey Board for review and approval for write-off, the Country Office did not provide any supporting documentation for the missing, damaged or obsolete assets. The audit team did not receive any evidence that an investigation has been conducted on these missing assets, or that recoveries are being made from the staff or implementing partners responsible. The Country Office explained that most of the missing assets are from field offices that were closed without a proper handover of assets.  Without such investigation and supporting documents, there is an elevated risk of theft or misuse of the Country Office’s assets.  •   Assets on loan to implementing partners: UNICEF’s Financial Regulations and Rules require country offices to establish necessary controls for the recording and safekeeping of assets. At the time of the audit, the Country Office had 77 assets on loan, including 54 Toyotas, 22 Yamaha motorcycles and one HF mobile radio antenna. The assets had been on loan since 2012 and 2018, respectively, and the Country Office had not adequately monitored them. For example, 44 of those assets had not been counted since 2017. Given the significant delay in completing annual inventory counts and the absence of any monitoring activities, there is a risk that not all UNICEF assets have been accounted for, that these ageing assets no longer exist, or have been misappropriated, resulting in inaccurate records of the Country Office’s assets.  Root cause(s): While the staff and management of the Country Office attribute the identified gaps to improper closure of some field offices, it is the audit team’s view that these gaps are primarily due to insufficient management oversight of assets, compounded by inadequate monitoring of assets on loan to implementing partners.  RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 14  The DRC Country Office should:  i.   Recover the value of missing assets from the staff members responsible in accordance with UNICEF's procedure.

48  ii.   Strengthen senior management oversight to ensure there is appropriate supporting documentation to justify the existence or potential write-off of assets not found during counts.  iii.   Ensure assets on loan with implementing partners are monitored and regularly counted.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Operations, Chief Administration & Finance, Chief Planning & Monitoring  Implementation Date: December 2025

4  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity, area, activity or process or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a potential opportunity for improvement in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low- priority observations are reported to management during the audit but are not included in the audit report. Action in response to the  observation is desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to a weakness or deficiency in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution within a reasonable period to avoid adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process, or for  UNICEF as a whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management, and control processes were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, and control processes were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the  performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, or control processes needed major improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or  process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes were not adequately established or did not function well. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative impact on the performance of the audited  entity, area, activity or process.

Published by UNICEF Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) 3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St, New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation  Report No. 2025/15  © United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), [September 2025]