# 2025 OIAI Audit Report of Gabon Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2156/file/2025-gabon-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2156/file/2025-gabon-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

1  Report on the   Internal Audit of the  GABON   COUNTRY   OFFICE  OCTOBER   202 5  Report 202 5 / 18  UNICEF OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT AND INVESTIGATIONS

C ONTENTS  2  Executive Summary   ................................ ................................ ................................ ..   3  Overall Conclusion  Summary of   O bservations and Agreed Actions  Context   ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................   7  Audit Objectives ,   Scope   and Approach   ................................ ................................ ...   9  Observations and Management Action Plan   ................................ .......................   10  1.   Fraud risk management  2.   Programme   management  3.   Cash transfer   and   financial assurance activities  4. Procurement of goods and services  5 .   Resource Mobilization  Appendix ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................   23  Definition s   of   Audit Observation Ratings  Definition s   of   Overall Audit Conclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Gabon  Country   Office, covering   the period from 1 January 2024 to 30 June 2025.   The audit was  conducted from   30   June   to   4   July   2025 in conformance with   the Institute of Internal  Auditors’ Global   Internal Audit Standards.   The objective of the audit was to assess the  adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management, and control processes  related to a selection of significant risk areas of the   Gabon   Country Office.   The specific  risks evaluated are set out in the Audit Objective, Scope and Approach section of this  report.  The   Gabon   Country Office supports the Government of the Republic of   Gabon   in the  implementation of the country programme through partnerships with the Government at  the central and subnational levels .   During the audit period, UNICEF   Gabon   transferred  approximately US$ 0.9   million in cash and US$ 0.5   million worth of programme supplies to  its   implementing partners. Total resources transferred to implementing partners  represented   47   per cent   of total expenditure for the audit period. There were several risks  r elated to   fr aud risk management,   cash transfers to implementing partners, assurance  activities, programme supplies, procurement of   institutional   service   contracts and  resource mobilization . The audit sought to determine whether and how the   Gabon  Country Office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI  concluded that the assessed governance, risk  management,   or   control   processes   were  Partially   Satisfactory,   Improvement  Needed,   meaning   they   were   generally  adequate and functioning, but needed some  improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies  identified were unlikely to have a materially  negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity of process.  Summary of   O bservations   and   A greed   A ctions  OIAI   noted   the following   practices   that   were   innovative or exceed ed   expected   levels   of  control :  •   Use of UN   System LTAs :   The Country Office has been   effectively   leveraging   the  C ommon   United Nations   S ervices   under the Business Operations Strategy (BOS). For  example , it continues to utilize Long - Term Agreements (LTAs) established by other UN  agencies. Additionally, the Country Office Representative, who also act s   as the UN  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory,   Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4  Resident Coordinator   a.i , has been actively advancing this agenda with the   goal   of  reducing costs   associated with   UN common premises and security services.  •   Monitoring   staff travel expenses :   The   Country Office has implemented several  measures to monitor staff travel costs. For example, it maintains a monthly travel plan  that is aligned with the field monitoring plan. This plan details the objective, duration,  and estimated cost of each trip and i s regularly updated to reflect any changes in field  visits.  The audit   team   also made   several   observations   related to the management of the key  risks   evaluated .   In particular, OIAI noted :  •   Fraud risk management :   While the Country Office did   conduct   the 2025 annual fraud  risk assessment, the audit team identified inconsistencies and duplications in the fraud  risks listed in the Country Office Risk Register. Additionally, some of the risk ratings  were not aligned with the Country Office’s operating con text. For example, the risk of  corruption was assessed as “Very Low,” despite   several red flags   suggesting a higher  level of risk. When assessed, some of the risk mitigation measures were found t o be  insufficient   in   mitigat ing   the   identified   risks. For example, a “high” fraud risk was  mitigated only by advocacy from the Representative. This ,   combined with   a   lack of  fraud awareness training to implementing partners, vendors and staff ,   and non -  compliance   with   UNICEF procedures by staff, increases the Office’s vulnerability to  fraud.  •   Programme   management :   The Country Office’s staffing and financial resources were  not adequately aligned with the scale of planned activities, indicators, and expected  results. The audit team also   identified   weaknesses in the UNICEF Country Office’s  programme monitoring practices. Although the office reported meeting its 2024  programmatic visit targets, visits were often overreported ,   such as recording a single  programmatic   visit   multiple time   in eTools. Additionally, monitoring reports were  inconsistently uploaded and reviewed, with many lacking documented action points or  follow - up evidence. Furthermore, supplies monitoring was insufficient, with no end -  user monitoring to confirm   the   distribution of supplies   to beneficiaries  .  •   Cash transfer   and   assurance activities :   The audit identified several control  weaknesses in the management of cash transfers to implementing partners by the  UNICEF Country Office. Key control   gaps   include d   the use of alternate payees 1   without  proper oversight or   due diligence ,   direct payments   to implementing partners   without  sufficient   supporting   documentation   (e.g., proof of service delivery) ,   and the  submission of liquidation FACE forms that were not supported by financial and activity  1   Alternate payee:   An arrangement where cash transfer is made to institutions or individuals other than the  implementing partners themselves.

5  reports to verify cost accuracy or confirm that planned activities had been  implemented.   Furthermore, multiple transfers were often consolidated into a single  liquidation FACE form, complicating reconciliation and oversight. Spot checks were  conducted by internal staff who lacked the necessary training and experience, thereby  reducing the effe ctiveness of this control measure.  •   Procurement of institutional service contracts :   The Country Office did not have an  adequate process to regularly review and revise the approved Supply Plan to reflect  changes in stock levels and   supply   needs. More over , there was a lack of supporting  documentation to support the Country Office ’s   key procurement processes in VISION.  This, combined with   the absence of independent reviews for procurement contracts  below the Contract Review Committee (CRC) threshold and delays in closing expired  purchase orders, may expose the Country Office to increased risk of fraud.  •   Resource mobilization:   Two of the three Country Office programme outcomes are  significantly underfunded, with no secured funding in the pipeline. This ,   combined with  the limited capacity to mobilize resources from the private sector, limited the Country  Office’s ability to implement all the activities earmarked in the Country Programme  Document.  The table below summarizes the actions management has agreed to take to address the  residual risks identified   and   OIAI’s assessment of   the ratings of those   risks   ( s ee th e  definition s   of   the   observation ratings   in the Appendix.)   For all other areas within the audit  scope, no deficiencies in the governance, risk management or control processes evaluated  were identified that warrant reporting.  AGREED   ACTIONS   & AUDIT RATINGS  Fraud risk management   (Observation 1) :   The Gabon Country Office has agreed  to , i n consultation with the West and Central Africa Regional Office ,   provide  comprehensive training on fraud risk assessment s   and mitigation to all Country  Office staff, with a particular focus on the designated fraud focal point ; s trengthen  fraud mitigation measures by implementing more robust actions to address  existing control gaps and ensuring that staff comply with UNICEF policies and  procedures ;   develop a training plan for fraud awareness for vendors and  implementing partners receiving resources from the Country Office and establish  a mechanism to monitor its effectiv eness.  High  Programme   management   (Observation 2):   The   Gabon Country Office has  agreed to , i n consultation with the West and Central Africa Regional Office and  based on the outcome of the recent organizational restructuring, align the  Country Programme structure and priorities with available staffing and financial  resources ; s trengthen programme planning to ensure that all significant changes  in programme activities are promptly and reflected in revised work plans ;  Medium

6  s trengthen programme monitoring by ensuring that all programmatic visits are  accurately recorded, systematically reviewed, and fully documented in eTools and  establish clear processes for timely follow - up and completion of actions arising  from these visits , and i mprove supply monitoring by integrating both supplies  monitoring and end - user verification into programmatic visits.  Cash transfer and financial assurance   (Observation 3) :   The Country Office has  agreed to   s trengthen internal controls over cash transfers to implementing  partners by ensuring that all direct payments are pre - approved by the Country  Office and that cash liquidations are adequately supported with appropriate  documentation ; d iscontinue the use of alternate payees unless there is  documented due diligence or a clear, approved relationship between these  alternate payees and the implementing partners ; p rovide compr ehensive HACT  training to Programme Officers, Finance staff involved in FACE form preparation,  and implementing partners ; i n consultation with the West and Central Africa  Regional Office, provide tailored training to staff responsible for conducting spot  checks ; s trengthen follow - up and recovery of outstanding ineligible expenses  High  Procurement of institutional service contracts   (Observation 4) :   The Country  Office has agreed to   d evelop a robust process that requires the Supply Plan to be  regularly reviewed and revised to reflect changes in stock levels and needs ;  s trengthen controls over procurement and contract management procedures by  ensuring that all procurement - related documentation is systematically uploaded  and maintained in VISION and expired purchase orders are closed promptly ;  e nhance oversight and accountability in procurement processes by ensuring an  independent review mechanism for transactions below the CRC threshold ;   p rovide  training to staff on UNICEF procurement procedures and guidance.  Medi um  Resource Mobilization   (Observation 5) :   The Country Office has agreed to, in  collaboration with the West and Central Africa Regional Office, strengthen  resource mobilization initiatives by developing private sector fundraising capacity  and increasing advocacy and policy influence within the publ ic sector and the  Gabonese government.  Medium  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk  management and control processes and implementing the actions   agreed following this audit .  The role of the   OIAI   is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk  management and control processes.  Eva Mavroeidi  Deputy Director, Internal Audit  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations

CONTEXT  7  According to the   2023 - 2027   Country Programme Documen t,   Gabon is an upper - middle -  income country that ranks 119th out of 189 countries on the Human Development Index  (HDI). Its estimated population of 2.23 million (2021) is predominantly urban, with 87 per  cent living in cities. Since 2017, the poverty headcount   ratio at national poverty lines has  stagnated at 33 per cent.   The mortality rate for children under 5 years of age dropped from  89 to 39 per 1,000 live births between 2000 and 2019 – 21. Infant mortality decreased from  57 to 28 per 1,000 live births, and ne onatal mortality from 30 to 18 per 1,000 live births.  However, the rate of new HIV infections remains concerning at 59   per cent , with a  prevalence rate of 3.6   per cent .  For the estimated population of 1 million children under 19 years of age in 2020, school  access rates are 43 per cent for preschool, 98 per cent for primary, 95 per cent for secondary  and 20 per cent for higher education. There is a significant difference   between these rates.  The lack of a standard national curriculum and the largely private and urban nature of  preschool education (with 80 per cent of private education in large urban areas) are among  the main factors causing such disparity.  The proportion of the budget allocated to the health sector increased from 9   per cent   in  2023 to 12   per cent   in 2024, aiming to improve healthcare infrastructure and access to  medical services.   Similarly,   the share of the budget increased from 15   per cent   in 2023 to  18   per cent   in 2024, with a commitment to improving the educational system. The gross  admission rate in the final year of lower secondary education remained at 86   per cent .  However, weaknesses in human and financial resources and the low access to pre - primary  education (48   per cent ) contribute to a high repetition rate (25   per cent ). Additional  investments in teacher training and school infrastructure are necessary.  Context of key risk areas covered in the audit  The Country Office has a total workforce of   21   posts ( 5   international professionals,   6  national officers and   10   general service posts)   as   of   30 June 2025.   The UNICEF Country  Office   operates from a single office in Libreville .  Country Programme Document:   The 2023 - 2027   Gabon   Country Programme Document  (CPD) covers   three   programmatic areas:   universal and equitable access to health care ;  universal and equitable access to resilient, quality education and protection ;   strengthened  equality, inclusion and social protection ;   and one cross - sectoral component (Programme  Effectiveness). The CPD included a proposed aggregate indicative budget of US$ 4.3   million  from regular resources, and US$ 8   million in other resources, subject to the availa bility of  specific - purpose contributions, for the approved period. During the period covered by this  audit, CPD expenditure totalled US$ 3.8   million. Figures 1 and 2 below outline the CPD  spending by outcome and category for the audited period.

8  Example   Figure   1: Programme spending by outcome in US$ million   -   January 202 4   to  June   202 5  Figure 1   provides a breakdown of the country programme budget by programme  component. It shows that most resources were spent on   universal access to health , mainly  related to   vaccination   and emergencies . The US$ 1.2   million   expenditure   on programme  effectiveness   includes   communication,   cost of operations staff and   programme  coordination and monitoring.  Example   Figure   2: Expenditure by cost category in US$ million   -   January 202 4   to   June  202 5  Figure 2   shows the Country Office’s expenditure by key cost category during the period  audited. The most significant amount was US$ 0.9   million in cash transferred to  implementing partners. The audit scope included key controls related to this as well as  expenditure on programme supplies, general operating costs and service contracts. Staff  costs were excluded from the audit scope due to   the high degree of centralization and  standardization in the organization's administration and management of staff - related  costs, which the audit team believes reduces the risk of errors and fraud .  1.4  0.8  0.4  1.2  Universal access to health  Universal access to education  Social protection  Programme Effectiveness  Programme Spending by Outcome  US$ Millions  0.9  1.1  0.4  0.5  0.9  Cash Transfers  Staff Cost  Service Contracts  Programme Supplies  General Operating Cost  Programme Spending by Category  US$ Millions

AUDIT OBJECTIVES ,   SCOPE   AND APPROACH  9  The objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the  governance, risk management and control processes over a selection of significant risk  areas of the   Gabon Country   Office.  The audit scope was determined during the audit planning process based on an  assessment of the inherent 2   risks   of the   Gabon   Country Office,   and included the following  areas:  •   Governance and office structure  •   Fraud risk management  •   Programme planning, monitoring and reporting of results  •   Cash transfers to implementing partners and HACT assurance  •   Distribution and monitoring of programme supplies  •   Evaluation  •   PSEA (Limited scope)  •   Service contracts  •   Resource mobilization and affordability  •   Financial management  The audit field work was conducted from   30   June   to   4 July   2025 in conformance with the  Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. For the purpose of audit  testing, the audit covered the period from 1 January 202 4   to 3 0   June   202 5 . The audit  involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data  analytics, document review, tests of transactions, evaluations and validation of preliminary  observations.  2   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions,  including internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the  impact would be should the adverse event o ccur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk  management and control processes .

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  10  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Fraud   r isk   m anagement   High  While the Country Office did conduct the 2025 annual fraud risk assessment, the audit team  identified inconsistencies and duplications in the fraud risks listed in the Country Office Risk  Register. Additionally, some of the risk ratings   did n ot reflect the   Country Office’s operating  context. For   instance , the risk of corruption was   rated   “Very Low,” despite   several red flags  suggesting a higher level of risk.   S ome of the risk mitigation measures were found to be  insufficient in mitigating the identified risks. For example, a “ High ” fraud risk was mitigated  solely through   advocacy from the Representative. This, combined with a lack of fraud  awareness training to implementing partners, vendors and staff, and non - compliance with  UNICEF procedures by staff, increases the Office’s vulnerability to fraud.  UNICEF’s   Anti - Fraud Strategy   requires country offices to identify, assess and mitigate key  fraud risks in line with UNICEF’s zero   tolerance for   fraud and misconduct.   The audit team  evaluated the adequacy of the Country Office’s fraud risk control environment to determine  its   effectiveness.   Particular   attention   was   paid   to   fraud   risk   management   activities,  including risk assessment and monitoring, staff and stakeholder   communication and  training, and   the   establishment and application   of to   identify, assess a nd monitor fraud red  flags.  Annual   fraud   risk   assessment:   According   to   the   UNICEF   Policy   on   Anti - Fraud   and  Corruption,   country offices are required to conduct an annual fraud risk assessment to help  management   identify fraud   risks associated with programme activities and operations,  assess   control   weaknesse s,   and develop   appropriate   mitigation measures.  While the Country Office did conduct the 2025 annual fraud risk assessment,   the risk  register contained inconsistencies and duplications, with some fraud risks rated differently  under separate categories.   For   example , the 2025 risk register   listed   10 fraud - related risks,  with two rated as “Low” and three as “Very Low.” However, three of these same risks were  also assessed as “Medium” and “High” under different categories.   When assessing the fraud  risk, the proposed mitigation measures were   found to be   ins ufficient. For   example, the  mitigation measure for the risk of misappropriation of UNICEF resources by implementing  partners ,   rated as “High” ,   consisted solely of   the Representative’s   advocacy efforts. OIAI  considered this response insufficient given the   severity   of the risk. Additional mitigation  strategies, such as enhanced assurance activities and targeted fraud training for both  implementing partners and staff, were not considered.  The audit team also noted that   some   of the   risk ratings   did not reflect   the Country Office’s  operating context. For   example , the risk of corruption was assessed as “Very Low,” despite  several red flags indicating elevated   risk. These included the use of “alternate payees” for

11  cash transfers without sufficient   oversight and   multiple   paid   vendor invoices   without proof  of service delivery   attached in   VISION. 3  Fraud awareness and reporting:   UNICEF Policy on Anti - Fraud and Corruption   requires  mandatory,   dedicated ,   and   regular   fraud   awareness   training   for   staff   and   other  stakeholders working for the Country Office, including vendors and implementing partners.  Although   anti - fraud training was listed as one of the fraud mitigati ons , the   audit   team   noted  the Country Office did not provide   any   fraud training   to implementing partners   in 2024   or  2025 . This was despite   one   implementing   partner having   a   significant   amount of   ineligible  expenses and   some   receiving   cash transfers   through alternate payees.   While the Country  Office did deliver HACT training to some implementing partners,   these sessions did not  cover fraud - related topics or UNICEF’s zero - tolerance policy on fraud,   leaving a critical gap  in partner awareness and risk mitigation.  The Country Office also did not provide fraud awareness training to key service providers  supporting its operations. For example, the audit found no evidence that   the   staff of the  Financial Service Provider   responsible for   paying   Daily Subsistence Allowance ( DSA )   and  other mission allowances to   staff of   government implementing partners   had received any  UNICEF anti - fraud training. While all   the   Country Office staff had completed the mandatory  fraud training at the time of the audit fieldwork   in   2025,   no annual refresher training   was  provided   in 2024 ,   as required by   the   UNICEF   Anti - Fraud Strategy.  Furthermore, the audit team observed that information regarding UNICEF’s fraud reporting  procedures was not adequately disseminated to increase fraud awareness among staff,  vendors and partners. For example, whistleblower posters were not displayed at the  Country Office.   Without a clear understanding of UNICEF's zero - tolerance position   related  to   fraud, how to identify   and report   potential fraud, and   obligation   to report suspicions  related to UNICEF's funds and supplies, Country Office staff, implementing partners and  vendors may fail to detect or report fraud, thereby hindering the Country Office's fraud risk  management efforts.  Compliance with   UNICEF policies and procedures:   Staff   and affiliate personnel are  mandated by   UNICEF Policy on Anti - Fraud and Corruption   to comply with UNICEF’s internal  controls, including the Policy on Internal Controls and related Procedures, and to actively  participate in fraud risk assessments within their areas of responsibility, supporting the  identification of risks and the impleme ntation of appropriate mitigation measures.   The  audit noted several   instances of non - compliance with UNICEF policies an d procedures by  Country Office staff. For example, cash transfers to implementing partners were made  using   alternate   payees   without   any   documentation   of   the   relationship   between   the  alternate   payees   and   the   implementing   partners.   Additionally,   direct   payments   to  implementing   partners were not sufficiently   supported , and   vendors'   paid invoices lack ed  sufficient documentation in VISION. The   n on - compliance   with UNICEF procedures exposes  the Country Office to the risk of fraud and misappropriation of   UNICEF assets.  3   VISION:   UNICEF corporate system for record ing financial transactions

12  Root cause(s):   The audit attributed the gaps identified above to a lack of training for the  Country Office team on fraud risk assessment and mitigation, combined with limited staff  capacity.   It   For example, at the time of the audit   fieldwork , the designated fraud focal point  was the   Finance Associate   who   had   not received any training on fraud risk .  AGRE ED   ACTIONS 1  The   Gabon   Country Office   has agreed   to :  i.   In consultation with the West and Central Africa Regional Office ,   provide  comprehensive   training on   fraud risk assessment   and mitigation   to all Country  Office staff, with   a particular   focus on the designated fraud focal point.  ii.   Strengthen   fraud mitigation measures by   implementing   more robust actions to  address existing control gaps   and   ensuring   that   staff comply with UNICEF policies  and p rocedures .  iii.   In consultation with the West and Central Africa Regional Office ,   de velop   a  training plan for fraud awareness for vendors and implementing partners  receiving resources from the Country Office   and   establish   a   mechanism to  monitor its   effectiveness .  Staff Responsible:   Fraud focal point, Chief of Operations  Implementation Date:   August 2026  2.   P rogramme   management   Medium  The Country Office’s staffing and financial resources were not   sufficiently   aligned with the  scale of planned activities, indicators, and expected results. The audit team also identified  weaknesses in   programme monitoring practices. Although the office reported meeting its  2024 programmatic visit targets,   some   visits were overreported , for   example a   single  programmatic visit   was recorded   multiple times   in eTools. Additionally, monitoring reports  were inconsistently uploaded and reviewed, with many lacking documented action points  or   evidence of   follow - up. Furthermore, supplies mo nitoring was insufficient, with no end -  user   monitoring was   conducted   to confirm the distribution of supplies to beneficiaries.  Country Office   Programme structure :   The 2023 – 2027 Country Programme Document  (CPD) outlined three programme outcomes and one support outcome, with corresponding  indicators   primarily   focused on   service delivery.   While   work plans for 2024 – 2025 aligned  with this   focus, the   audit   team   noted   that staffing and financial resources   were not  sufficient   to support the scale of planned activities. For example, each programme  outcome was managed by only one staff member, and all three outcomes were

13  significantly underfunded as   of   June 30, 2025 ,   with funding gaps of   72 per cent, 71 per  cent and 68 per cent ,   respectively .  The audit also found that the Country Office lacked sufficient capacity to mobilize  resources for planned activities. Despite Gabon's status as an upper - middle - income  country capable of financing many child - related initiatives, the Office continued to focu s  primarily on service delivery, with limited emphasis on advocacy and policy influence. This  raises concerns about the sustainability of such a business model in a smaller, upper -  middle - income context like Gabon.  In response to recent organizational changes and budget constraints, the Country Office  indicated in its Programme Budget Review (PBR) submission that it will shift its focus  toward s   advocacy   and streamline   the staffing structure and cost by 12.5 per cent .   Given  that   the current CPD runs until the end of 2027,   it is not clear how this strategic shift will  be operationalized in Gabon’s context. Specifically, how the Country Office   will   move  beyond service delivery to leverage evidence for policy influence an d scale results   with the  remaining years of the CPD .  Work plan revision :   According to the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook,  country office work plans should remain responsive to evolving needs, challenges, and  opportunities. The handbook further   states   that work plans must be revised to  incorporate new funding received for previously unfunded activities or to adjust budgeted  amounts based on significant deviations from the   planned budget .   The audit team noted  that the Country Office did not revise its work plan to reflect a substantial change in one of  its programme out puts. Specifically, the 2024 – 2025 work plan initially allocated  US$310,000 for Output 1, “Strengthened Capacities for Quality Vaccination.” However, as  of June 2025, actual expenditure for this output had reached US$993,000. Despite this  significant increa se, no revision was made to the work plan.   The Country Office explained  that the increased   spending   was due to   additional funding received in response to a  dysentery emergency. Nevertheless, the audit team observed that neither the work plan  nor the RAM in dicators were updated to reflect this change.   W hile the Country Office’s  2024 annual report acknowledged the receipt of emergency funding and noted transfers  to government implementing partners,   there was no evidence that these   changes   had  been discussed and agreed with the relevant government departments.   The Country  Office   informed the audit that the government was informed and that the financial  execution was presented during the annual review process .   However, no   documentation  of   this   communication with the government was provided to the audit team.  Failure to revise the work plan   promptly   increases the risk that   programme   monitoring  and reporting are based on outdated indicators, potentially affecting the accuracy and  relevance of programme performance assessments.  Programme   mo nitoring:   Programme monitoring is essential to   ensure that activities are  implemented as planned and that expected results are achieved.   The re were   weaknesses

14  in   the Country Office   programme monitoring.   Although   the Country Office reported  achieving   its   programmatic visit   KPI   for 2024 ,   the   audit team noted that   programmatic  visits were reported based on activity objectives   and   outputs   rather   than   a   report linked to  actual resource transfers   to an implementing partner .   This   resulted in   overreporting   of  programmatic visits. For example, one programmatic visit to an implementing partner  was recorded four separate times in eTools as distinct visits.  The audit team   noted   further that   programmatic visit reports were not   systematically  reviewed   and   uploaded in eTools   for follow - up . For the reports   that were   uploaded , action  points were not consistently   documented ,   hindering proper follow - up of these actions .  Also,   most   action   points   from programmatic visits were closed in the system without  supporting document ation. O f 11   closed action points   reviewed ,   only one had supporting  document ation   which was not directly related to the action point itself .   As of June 30,  2025, 15 action points from programmatic visits were overdue,   seven   of whic h have been  outstanding since 2023.  Furthermore , supplies transferred to implementing partners were not monitored during  programmatic visits, and no end - user monitoring was conducted to confirm that supplies  were effectively distributed to beneficiaries.   This was   particularly   important as   most  programmatic visits took place   in Libreville   rather than in the field where programmes  activities   were being implemented.  Root cause(s):   The audit   attributed the gaps   to   ( i)   misalignment between the Country  Office’s strategic focus and its available financial and human resource capacities.   and (ii )  limited   oversight over programme mon itoring ,   including   absence   of a robust mechanism  to   verify   and   clo se   programmatic visits recommendations.  AGRE ED   ACTION S   2  The Gabon Country Office   has agreed   to :  i.   In consultation with the West and Central Africa Regional Office and based on the  outcome of the recent organizational restructuring, align the Country  Programme structure   and priorities   with   available   staffing and financial  resources.  ii.   Strengthen   programme   planning to ensure that all significant changes in  programme activities are promptly   and reflected   in revised work plans.  iii.   Strengthen programme monitoring by ensuring that all programmatic visits are  accurately recorded, systematically reviewed, and fully documented in eTools  and establish   clear processes   for   timely   follow - up and completion of actions  arising from these visits .  iv.   Improve   suppl y   monitoring by integrating both supplies monitoring and end -  user verification into programmatic visits.

15  Staff Responsible:   Deputy Representative  Implementation Date:   August 2026  3 . Cash   t ransfer   and financial assurance   High  The audit identified several control weaknesses in the management of cash transfers to  implementing partners .   Key control gaps included the use of alternate payees without  proper oversight or due diligence, direct payments to implementing partners without  sufficient supporting documentation (e.g., proof of service delivery), and the submission of  liquidation FACE   forms that were not supported by financial and activity reports to verify  cost accuracy or confirm that planned activities had been implemented. Furthermore,  multiple transfers were often consolidated into a single liquidation FACE form, complicating  reconciliation and oversight. Spot checks were also conducted by internal staff who lacked  the necessary training and experience, thereby reducing the effectiveness of this control  measure.  During the audit period, the Country Office (CO) transferred a total of US$ 895,87 5   to  implementing partners. Of this amount, 50 .2   per cent   (US$447,000) was disbursed  through Direct Cash Transfers (DCT), while 49.8   per cent   (US$448,875) was made through  Direct Payments.   During   the same period, the CO conducted five spot checks and  commissioned two external audits, both of which resulted in significant financial findings.  The audit team assessed the effectiveness of controls over cash transfers and financial  assurance processes related to implementing partners and noted the following:  Cash Transfers to implementing partners:   The audit team   analysed   cash transfer   data  and   reviewed 35 sampled FACE forms . The following control gaps we re   noted :  -   Direct payments , worth   US$190K   or   59 % of direct payments   reviewed   ( US$320K ) ,  made   to implementing   partners lacked sufficient   documentation   to justify the  expenses ,   and the purpose of the expenditure .   For example,   FACE forms submitted  by implementing partners for payments such as Daily Subsistence Allowance (DSA),  fuel reimbursements, and transport costs for staff of government implementing  partners were supported only by invoices from Financial Service Providers   w ithout  beneficiary   lists with signatures or mission   orders   to justify the   objective   and  accuracy of   related   payments.  -   L iquidation of Direct Cash Transfers (DCT) by implementing partners   lacks   sufficient  supporting documentation, such as financial and activity reports, to confirm that the  funds were utilized as intended. For   example , 4 out of 10 liquidation FACE forms  reviewed   by the audit team   were supported only by the cover page of the activity  report.   While the Country Office explained that full   copies of these reports have been

16  received   from   the   implementing   partners,   the   reports   were   not   attached   to  liquidation FACE forms   as required   by the UNICEF Programme Implementation  Handbook .  -   During the period January 2024 to June 2025,   the Country Office   transferred   65   per  cent   (US $ 290 ,485 )   of   Direct Cash Transfer ( US$ 447 ,00 3 )   to implementing   partners  through   “alternate payees”   without   adequate   oversight   or   confirmation that   the  implementing partners had effectively received the cash .   Additionally , the Country  Office did not provide the audit team with supporting documentation of the  relationship between these   “ alternate payees ”   and the implementing   partners,   nor  any evidence of due diligence conducted on these payees.   This practice   is   not in line  with UNICEF’s Procedures on Master Data Management of Implementing Partners,  which require country offices to document the relationship between implementing  partners and any designate d alternate or permitted payees.   Notably, the audit team  observed that one of the alternate payees utilized by the Country Office had not been  recommended in the office’s 2021 market survey .   F urthermore,   two implementing  partners confirmed to the auditors that when funds are transferred to an alternate  payee’s account, withdrawals are either made in physical cash or via checks issued  to staff members of the implementing partners.   This   lack of transparency and  c ontrol   raised significant   concerns about accountability   and fraud , especially   as  some   of the   funds   transferred to implementing partners were liquidated   without  adequate supporting documentation .  -   The   audit   found   discrepancies   in   three   payments   totalling   US$42,548   to  implementing partners, where in   the names on the payment records differed from  those on the corresponding FACE forms.   For example, payments were made to  “Partner A” while the FACE forms had the name of “Partner B .”   Although the Country  Office explained   that   both entities were under the same ministry, the audit noted  that the latter was not registered as an implementing partner in UNICEF’s system.  The Country Office explained that the form er partner was selected   due to the  urgency of the fund transfer and because the latter was not registered in the UNICEF  system at the time. Although the Regional Office reminded the Country Office to  update the latter partner’s profile to enable its use for subsequent transfers,   the  necessary   changes   were not made   as   of   the time of the audit fieldwork , and the  Country Office continued to transfer funds to the former partner.   The Country Office  explained that the profile of this partner has not been updated in the system because  of several changes with the government ministries, and because no cash transfer is  planned for this partner  -   The audit team   also   noted several instances where cash transfers were made  through multiple FACE forms, but the liquidation was carried out using a single  FACE form. Although the Country Office explained that this approach was intended  to avoid transferring large sums to imp lementing partners,   this practice  complicates   reconciliation and oversight   and   does not align with the   UNICEF  Financial and Administrative policy.

17  The lack of supporting documentation and oversight over   cash transfers to implementing  partners exposes the Country Office to a heightened risk of fraud , misuse of funds   and  increases the likelihood that programme activities may not be implemented as planned.  Root causes:   The audit team attributed the gaps above to be   because of   1)   insufficient  management   oversight   and   monitoring   of   cash   transfer   to   implementing   partners  combined ,   with   limited staff knowledge on UNICEF cash transfer procedures.  Performance and   quality   of financial assurance s :   According to   UNICEF Procedure on  the Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT),   country   offices may assign either  qualified internal staff or external service providers — or a combination of both — to  perform spot checks. When internal staff are designated,   they must possess experience in  financial management, knowledge of   the UNICEF - supported programme   and   the  necessary training and expertise to effectively conduct spot checks.   The audit team noted  that spot checks were conducted by internal staff who   lacked   the necessary training and  experience to conduct spot checks.   For example, the   HACT   Foca l Point ,   conducting spot  checks ,   had only one year of experience in the role at the time of the audit fieldwork.  Alt hough the Country Office explained that   one of   these team members   has   been  performing spot checks since 2021,   t he audit team did not receive any evidence that either  of the two staff members assigned to conduct spot checks had received   the   spot checker  training.  T he HACT focal point confirmed to the auditors that the two staff   members   conducting  spot checks were using UNICEF’s guidance. However, each interpreted the guidance  differently, leading to inconsistencies in how spot checks were conducted.   The audit did  not receive any   evidence of regular oversight by senior management regarding the spot  checks   conducted by staff.  This lack of training and experience was reflected in the quality of the spot check reports  and their findings. For example, despite the use of alternate payees in transferring funds  to implementing partners ,   a practice that had already raised concerns among senior  management ,   the spot check reports failed to document any related control weaknesses.  In another instance, the spot checkers did not identify any internal control gaps in the  cash transfer process .   However, a subsequent   external   audit of the same implementing  partner revealed ineligible expenses amounting to US$ 165,000.   The   office explained that  ineligible expenses   were   not   identified   during the   spot check because   of the   complex  environment   the local   staff are   evolving in.  Outstanding ineligible expenses:   As of June 2025, ineligible expense s   amounting  US$165,000   were   outstanding   with one of the implementing partners. The Country Office  is currently in discussions with the Government of Gabon to recover this amount.

18  Root causes:   The   audit team   attributed   the   gaps noted above to   a   lack of training   for   staff  spot   checks ,   combined with   insufficient management oversight over cash transfers to  implementing partners  AGRE ED   ACTIONS   3  The   Gabon   Country Office   has agreed to :  i.   S trengthen internal controls over cash transfers to implementing partners by  ensuring that all direct payments   are pre - approved by   the Country Office   and  that cash liquidations are adequately supported with appropriate  documentation.  ii.   Discontinue   the   use of alternate payees unless there is documented due  diligence   or   a clear, approved relationship   between these alternate payees and  the implementing partner s .  iii.   Provide comprehensive HACT training to Programme Officers, Finance staff  involved in FACE form preparation, and implementing partners.  iv.   In consultation with the West and Central Africa Regional   Office ,   provide   tailored  training to staff responsible for conducting spot checks.  v.   Strengthen   follow - up and recovery of outstanding ineligible expenses  Staff Responsible:   Representative, Deputy   Representative   and   Chief of Operations  Implementation Date:   August 2026  4 . Procurement   of   institutional service contracts   Medium  The Country Office did not have an adequate process to regularly review and revise the  approved Supply Plan to reflect changes in stock levels and needs. Moreover, there was a  lack of supporting documentation   fo r   key procurement   transactions   recorded   in   VISION.  This, combined with the absence of independent reviews for procurement contracts below  the Contract Review Committee (CRC) threshold and delays in closing expired purchase  orders, may   increase   the   Country Office   exposure   to   procurement related risks ,   including  fraud .  From January 2024 to   June   2025, the Country Office   issued   13 1   contracts valued at  US$ 888 ,000   to purchase goods and services. The audit team sought to verify whether  adequate controls were in place around awarding those contracts,   focusing on   fraud  related   risks in   vendor selection, receipt of services, certification of payments, and  contract   closure .  Difference between   supply plan and actual purchases:   The UNICEF Procedure on  Supply Strategy and Planning requires country offices to prepare an annual plan for

19  purchasing supplies and services for use in programme implementation, considering the  supplies inventory and orders not yet delivered. The procedures further state that offices  should regularly review and update supply plans to accommodate needs and stock   level  changes. The audit team noted   a difference of   US$ 598,000   or   407 per cent between   the  2024 supply plan ( US$ 147,000 ) and   the 2024 actual   expenditure   ( US$745,000 ).   The Country  Office explained that the discrepancy was mainly due to funds received after the Supply  Plan was approved, leading to the procurement of additional supplies that were not  initially planned.   However, the   Country Office did not have   a systematic   process to review  the approved Supply Plan to reflect changes in stock levels and   needs and   did not  document reasons for this variation.   The failure to regularly review the supply plan  increase s   the   risk that it might purchase supplies that are not needed, resulting in waste  and potential misuse.  Lack of   s upporting documentation of procurement activities :   The audit   team   noted   a  lack of   sufficient   documentation   in   VISION   to support   the Country   Office's   key  procurement processes, including vendor due diligence   and   registration,   vendor   selection,  and contract award decisions. Specifically,   of   the 15   sampled   purchase   orders,   10 did not  have any supporting documentation uploaded in VISION.   F urthermore,   several   vendors'  paid   invoices   did not have   documented   proof of service delivery   in VISION as required by  UNICEF’s Procedures on Contract Management .   The   Country Office explained that most of  these documents were   stored in   individual staff computer s .   Although some   of the  document s were   later provided to the auditors, best practice requires all such documents  to be uploaded to UNICEF’s corporate system for transparency and accountability.  Review of the procurement transactions :   All but one purchase order s   issued by the  Country Office during the audit period were below the Contract Review Committee (CRC)  threshold and therefore were not submitted for CRC review. However, the audit noted that  most purchase orders valued between US$10,000 and US$100,000 were   prepared by the  Supply Associate and approved by the Deputy   Representative   -   Operations, without  involvement of an external party to provide independent oversight of the selection and  contract award process.   While the audit team acknowledges the limited si ze of the  Country Office, it is considered best practice to incorporate an independent review  mechanism to mitigate risks of conflicts of interest or   collusion.   The lack of such oversight  increases   the risk   of fraud and irregularities.  Contract closure :   UNICEF’s Procedures on Contract   Management require   that buyers  close all service contracts within 90 days of their end date of validity .   However, the  Country Office did not close expired purchase orders   on time . For   example , as of 30 June  2025, there were 24 open purchase orders with unused balances   totalling   US$43,000,  despite their contract validity having expired more than 90 days earlier. This delay creates  a risk that fraudulent invoices could be processed against these unused balances.

20  Root cause(s):   The audit team attributed the above gaps to limited staffing capacity, the  absence of a   structured   process   for reviewing   and updating the supply plan, and  insufficient training   and support on procurement procedures.  AGRE ED   ACTIONS   4  The   Gabon   Country Office   has agreed   to:  i.   Develop   a robust process   that requires the Supply Plan to be regularly reviewed  and revised to reflect changes in stock levels and needs.  ii.   Strengthen   controls over   procurement and contract management procedures by  ensuring that all procurement - related documentation is systematically uploaded  and maintained in   VISION   and   expired   purchase orders   are closed   promptly .  iii.   E nhance oversight and accountability in procurement processes   by ensuring   an  independent review mechanism for transactions below the CRC threshold.  iv.   Provide training   to staff on UNICEF procurement procedures and guidance.  Staff Responsible:   Chief of Operations  Implementation Date:   August 2026  5 .   Resource   m obilization   Medium  Two of the three Country Office programme outcomes are significantly underfunded, with  no secured funding in the pipeline. This, combined with the limited capacity to mobilize  resources from the private sector,   this has   limited the Country Office’s ability to   achieve  results defined   in the Country Programme Document.  According to   2023 - 2027 CPD and the resource mobilization strategy, the Country Office  was to mobilize   US$ 8 million   from public and private sector donors as w ell as   leverage  stakeholders   from the public and private sectors   to maximize available financial and  human resources   for the realization of children's rights and the goals of UNICEF's  Strategic Plan and the CPD.   The audit   assessed the effectiveness   of the resource  mobilization   and noted the following:  Funding Gap :   As of 30 June 2025, with two   and   a   half   years remaining in the current  programme cycle,   two   of the   three   programme outcomes were   sig n i ficantly   underfunded,  and there was insufficient funding in the pipeline to support those outcomes . For  example,   the   education   outcome   had a funding gap of   72 per cent or   US$3.5   million .  Similarly,   the   social   inclusion   outcome   had   a funding   gap   of   71   per cent or   US$1.3   million.

21  Primary health care   out come   also had a funding gap of 68%   or   US$1.4   million . These  funding   gaps are compounded by the fact that these two outcomes   and   the   output   d id  not have   any   secured   funding in the funding pipeline   a t   the time of audit fiel d   work .  Although the Country Office has taken several initiatives and is working with the West and  Central Africa Regional Office to address these funding gaps, there is still a risk that the  Country Office might not implement all the activities earmarked in the C ountry  Programme Document due to   a   lack of funding.  Private sector funding raising:   The private sector plays a crucial role in the ability of  UNICEF to deliver results for children ,   especially   in   upper - middle - income   contexts such   as  Gabon ,   with very low   funding   appetite   from public sector donors.   The   private   sector ,   if  developed and   nurtured ,   can   provide financial resources to support   UNICEF's   mandate   a s  well as provide innovative approaches and market solutions to programmatic  interventions . The audit team noted that a lthough the Country Office   had   conducted an  analysis of private sector donors and developed a strategy as part of its resource  mobilization plan,   the   implementation of this strategy was not effective ,   and very   little  funds   had been raised   from this sector despite their potential.  This was partly due to constraints related to donor due diligence requirements and limited  resources   to execute the strategy and mobilize private sector   funding . For example, due  diligence reviews conducted by the Country Office on two potential donors from the oil  and gas sector ,   each with funding potential of $300,000 and $250,000 ,   respectively, were  rejected by the Private Fundraising and Partnerships (PFP) division due to environmental  concerns .  Despite these challenges, the Country Office signed Memoranda of Understanding with  two local councils to support education, child protection, and health sectors through  locally raised resources. This initiative is expected to be expanded to all local coun cils   in  Gabon.  Root cause(s):   The primary causes of these funding gaps are related to   low   donor  appetite , combined with limited resource s   to develop and mobilize resources from the  private sector.  AGRE ED   ACTION   5  The   Gabon   Country Office   has agreed   to,   in   collaboration   with the West and Central  Africa Regional Office ,   strengthen resource mobilization initiatives   by developing private  sector   fundraising   capacity   and increasing advocacy and policy influence within the  public sector and the Gabonese government .  Staff Responsible:   Communication & Partnership Specialist   and Social Policy Specialist  Implementation Date:   June 2026

22  Definition s   of Audit   Observation   Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a  rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to  the audited entity, area, activity or   process   or   to   UNICEF as a whole. Individual  observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a   potential opportunity for improvement in  the assessed governance, risk management or control processes . Low -  priority observations   are reported to management during the audit  but   are   not included in the audit report. Action   in response to the  observation   is desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to   a   weakness or deficiency in the assessed  governance, risk management or control processes   that   requires  resolution within a reasonable   period   to avoid adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a   fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes   that  requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse  consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process ,   or for  UNICEF as a whole.  Definition s   of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above   ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion  for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management ,   and   control  processes were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management ,   and   control  processes were   generally   adequate and functioning   but needed  improvement .   The w eaknesses or deficiencies identified   were  unlikely   to   have a materially negative impact on   the  performance   of the audited entity, area, activity   or   process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  M ajor  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management ,   or control  processes   needed major improvement .   The w eaknesses or  deficiencies identified could   have a materially negative impact  on   the   performance of the   audited entity, area, activity or  process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control  processes   were not adequately established or   did not function  well .   The w eaknesses or deficiencies identified could   have a  severely negative impact on   the   performance of the   audited  entity, area, activity or process.  A PPENDIX

23  Published by UNICEF   Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI)  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St ,   New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation  Report No.   2025/ 18  © United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),   [ November 2025]