# 2025 OIAI Audit Report of the Burkina Faso Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2176/file/2025-burkina-faso-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2176/file/2025-burkina-faso-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

1  Report on the   Internal Audit of the  Burkina Faso Country Office  NOVEMBER   202 5  Report 202 5 / 19  UNICEF OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT AND INVESTIGATIONS

C ONTENTS  2  Executive Summary   ................................ ................................ ................................ ..   3  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context ......................................................................................................................   8  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach .................................................................   11  Observations and Management Action Plan .......................................................   12  1.   Risk management  2.   Cash transfers & Harmonised Approach to Cash Transfer (HACT) assurance  3.   Supply planning, inventory and warehouse management, and supply end-user monitoring (SEUM)  4.   Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (PSEA)  5.   Programme monitoring and reporting of results  6.   Partnership management  7.   Accountability to affected populations (AAP)  8.   Resource mobilization  9.   Service contracts  10.   Local procurements  Appendix   ..................................................................................................................   32  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Burkina Faso Country Office, covering the period from January 2023 to April 2025. The audit was conducted from March 2025 to April 2025 in conformance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. The objective of the audit was to   assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes related to a selection of significant risk   areas   of the Burkina Faso Country Office.   The specific risks evaluated are set out in the Audit Objective, Scope and Approach section of this report.  The Burkina Faso Country Office (hereafter the Country Office) works with government and civil society organizations (CSOs) to implement planned programme activities. During the audited period, The Country Office transferred approximately US$81 million in cash and US$45 million in supplies to implementing partners in 2023 and 2024, representing 70 per cent of expenditure. There were several risks related to using partnerships and supply and cash transfers to implementing partners.   Furthermore, the country context reflects a complex operational environment, with ongoing challenges affecting the well-being of vulnerable populations—particularly women and children.   The audit, therefore, sought to determine whether and how the office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI concluded that the assessed governance, risk management,   or   control   processes   were partly   satisfactory,   major   improvement needed,   meaning   that   the   assessed governance, risk management, and control processes needed major improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified   could have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted the following noteworthy practice that exceeded expected levels:  •   Strong collaboration with government partners : During audit field work, the audit team met with various Burkinabe government partners, including the Ministry of Health and the Ministries of Primary and Secondary Education. They all commended the strong positive relationship with UNICEF as a key partner in developing capacity in respective sectors. As a result of this strong collaboration, UNICEF has been awarded a piece of  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory, Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4  land for a new office. This new office planned for construction will be better tailored to the Country Office's needs and will also significantly reduce operating costs.  The audit team also made several   observations   related to the management of the key risks  evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:  •   Risk management : There are gaps in risk identification in the Country Office risk register, which creates a risk of unaddressed vulnerabilities, aggregated risk categories that hinder the pinpointing of specific mitigating controls, and loosely defined and untracked action points that hinder accountability and the effective implementation of mitigating measures. Moreover, there is insufficient evidence of risk management discussions in CMT meetings.  •   Cash transfers and HACT assurance : The Country Office had US$ 2.6 million in financial findings outstanding, with approximately 85 per cent or US$ 2.2 million aged for over   three years.   The management’s follow-up   on financial   findings needed improvement. Moreover, there were discrepancies in the processing of FACE forms. The country office has changed treatment dates for FACE forms to comply with UNICEF's internal KPIs of 14 days, which hinders the Country Office from correctly identifying and addressing delays.  The Country Office did not re-evaluate/adapt the implementing partners' HACT risk rating based on findings from assurance activities. The Country Office hired a single third-party provider to conduct its spot checks and its audits. The audit team reviewed 26 of these spot check reports; 21 were sent more than six months after field work had been completed. All audits covering 2024 were yet to be finalised. Moreover, the Terms of Reference shared with the service provider did not impose adequate timelines for completion of work.  •   Supply planning, inventory and warehouse management and supply end - user  monitoring : Supply End User Monitoring has not been conducted since 2023, and logistics assessments were not conducted for major partners receiving supplies; the storage of supplies in partners' warehouses and their receipt by beneficiaries are not tracked. Additionally, lost supplies are not adequately recorded in the corporate system through the Property Survey Board process.  •   PSEA : The Country Office’s PSEA oversight needs to be improved. The Country Office operates with numerous reporting channels without a formal tracking system to allow for adequate monitoring of reports. There is a lack of oversight, inconsistent PSEA monitoring during programmatic visits, and action points are not registered in the eTools action point module. Action plan implementation monitoring at the office and inter-agency levels needs to be better structured. Additionally, the Country Office does

5  not oversee subcontractors on PSEA, which drastically increases the risk of spillover effects.  The table below summarizes the actions management has agreed to take to address the residual risks identified and OIAI’s assessment of the ratings of those risks (see the  definitions of the observation ratings   in the Appendix). For all other areas within the audit  scope, no deficiencies in the governance, risk management or control processes evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  RECOMMENDATIONS & AUDIT RATINGS  Risk   management   (Observation   1):   Conduct   a   comprehensive   risk  assessment to: identify critical programmatic and operational risks relevant  to the Country Office in the risk register, break down aggregated risk  categories to identify specific risks, identify and evaluate the efficiency of  current internal controls addressing the specific risks identified, create  clearly defined risk mitigation action points based on the results of the risk  assessment;   Integrate   risk   management   into   strategic   planning   and  decision making by including risk management discussions in the Country  Management   Team   meetings   at   a   defined   frequency/cadence.   The  discussions   should   address   changing   or   new   risks   and   the   status   of  implementing   risk   management   action   points,   as   well   as   ongoing  monitoring of risks and effectiveness of risk mitigation strategies; Develop  a reporting framework that allows for regular updates on risk management  activities to senior management and other stakeholders as applicable.  High  Cash   transfers   &   HACT   assurance   (Observation   2):   Review   financial  findings and collaborate with implementing partners to find adequate  documentation   to   support   expenses   where   relevant.   For   ineligible  expenses, seek to recover the outstanding amount where possible, and for  the remaining amounts not possible to collect, engage with DFAM for write-  off; Monitor KPIs and the data behind financial findings on a periodic basis  and escalate to the Regional Office and DFAM as required, based on a risk-  based approach and analysis of assurance activities; Stop amending dates  for the recipient of FACE to comply with KPIs. Start documenting the reasons  for delays in processing FACE forms and using this data to identify how  processing times can be improved; Diversify with additional third-party  provider(s) for HACT assurance activities and improve the submitted Terms  of Reference to specify the quality and timeliness of its assurance activities;  Continuously analyse the findings of assurance activities, and, if required,  adapt the implementing partners’ HACT risk rating based on findings from  assurance activities; Review internal organisation to ensure that the HACT  team is provided with adequate resources for the timely completion of HACT  assurance requirements.  High

6  Supply planning, inventory and warehouse management and supply  end - user monitoring (Observation   3 ):   Conduct end-user monitoring for  distributed   supplies;   Assess   logistic   capacity   for   major   implementing  partners; Promptly record any impaired stock in the corporate system;  Establish procedures for the program sections to communicate distribution  lists to the logistics team in a timely manner; Ensure accurate recording of  supplies   under   the   implementing   partners   that   effectively   receive   the  supplies.  High  PSEA (Observation 4): Improve and systematize the tracking of action plans  at the Country Office level by assigning responsible staff to capture PSEA  impact better; Restructure the current PSEA reporting system to create a  lean and more efficient model that allows for analysis of systemic weakness  for future actions; conduct regular reviews of the reporting process to  identify areas for improvement based on the changing context; Create a  subcontractor PSEA monitoring system to promote PSEA awareness and  encourage them via training, awareness initiatives and monitoring to report  PSEA incidents.  Medium  Programme   monitoring   and   reporting   of   results   (Observation   5):  Enhance the quality of programmatic visits, and develop a checklist for staff  conducting visits and reviewers to evaluate before accepting report drafts,  listing   report   requirements,   including,   but   not   limited   to:   adequate  referencing to programme documents and activities/outcomes to be tested,  PSEA monitoring for CSO partners, creating eTools action points to address  identified   shortcomings,   include   sufficient   narrative   to   substantiate  conclusions; Improve oversight over partner monitoring by implementing  the collection and recording of partner reports in the eTools Quarterly  Partner Report module; Strengthen the programmatic visit review process  to verify that reports include monitoring of relevant elements, include  adequate narratives to support conclusions, and that action points are  raised in eTools and monitored adequately.  Medium  Partnership   management   (Observation   6):   Conduct   enhanced  implementing partner due diligence, considering relevant risks identified in  the Country Office risk registry; Analyse root causes of delays in finalising  programme documents and use the results to identify actions to improve  the processing time; Document adequate rationale for the direct selection  of implementing partners and use direct selection only in exceptional cases  when open selection is not feasible.  Medium  Accountability to affected populations (Observation 7): Create a formal  structure to manage AAP and appoint a dedicated focal point; Finalise the  AAP strategy for 2025-2027.  Medium

7  Resource   mobilization   (Observation   8 ):   Revise   the   current   Resource  Mobilization Strategy to clearly define resource mobilization initiatives and  how these initiatives are expected to drive future funding; Develop a more  comprehensive system to track and manage mobilization efforts, including;  meeting scheduling and agenda planning, meeting outcomes, follow-up  action   points,   and   ongoing   review of   resource   mobilization   efforts   to  concentrate efforts on activities most likely to generate outcomes.  Medium  Service Contracts (Observation 9): Define precise and clear procurement  requirements in terms of references, enabling service providers to better  respond   to   Country   Office   requirements   and   facilitate   more   efficient  competition; Provide annual training to the Bid Committee and Contract  Review Committee members, outlining role requirements and related risk  management   considerations;   Conduct   Supply   Evaluation   Unit   (SEU)  evaluations for all major vendors and consider these results in the CRC;  Allocate a focal point to oversee all indirect construction projects and take  responsibility for compliance with indirect construction procedures and  grant management.  High  Local   Procurements   (Observation   10):   Implement   strong   oversight  mechanisms to monitor that all end user monitoring, logistics assessment  and recording of supplies are conducted efficiently and adequately; Launch  a local market assessment and establish LTAs for recurrent procurements.  Medium  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit. The role of the OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk management and control processes.  Eva Mavroeidi  Deputy Director, Internal Audit  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations

C ONTEXT  8  Burkina Faso has an estimated population of 23 million, of which more than three-quarters are youth and 52 per cent are children 1   spread over 274,223 square kilometres. The country is composed of 45 administrative provinces. In 2024, the country ranked 185 out of 193 countries on the Human Development Index, which seeks to measure social and economic development levels over time. 2   The country ranked 82 out of 180 on the 2024 Transparency International Corruption Index. 3  As of 31 March 2023, the Conseil National de Secours d'Urgence et de Réhabilitation (CONASUR) reported 2,062,534 individuals displaced within the country, representing approximately 9 percent of the national population—with children comprising 58 percent of this group.  The Country Office has 152 staff (122 in Ouagadougou) and 32 vacancies. The Country Programme (CP) approved by the UNICEF Executive Board in August 2017, with extensions granted in September 2020, September 2022 and September 2023, covers the period from 2018 to 2025. The CP comprises five programme components, specifically (i) Health and nutrition; (ii) Wash, sanitation & hygiene; (iii) Child Protection; (iv) Quality basic education; and (v) Social inclusion. A programme effectiveness component is also intended to foster interoperable   and   multisectoral   approaches   while   conducting   robust   programme monitoring.  1   Burkina Faso Country Office Annual Report 2023  2   https://hdr.undp.org/en/countries/profiles  3   The CPI is an annual ranking of countries worldwide by their perceived levels of public sector corruption. https://www.transparency.org/en/cpi/2024

9  Figure   1: Programme spending by outcome in US$ million   -   January 2023 t o   December  202 4  In 2024, Burkina Faso was affected by various crises, including armed conflict, floods, drought, and epidemics. According to the Humanitarian Response Plan, 6.3 million people, including 3.4 million children, needed humanitarian assistance because of these crises.  The 2024 HAC funding requirements were US$239.0 million. As of 31 December 2024, US$30.3 million, including US$4.8 million in funds carried over from 2023, representing 13 per cent of the appeal, was mobilized, leaving a gap of US$204.0 million or 87 per cent.  32  29  29  25  23  14  5  2  0   5   10   15   20   25   30   35  Health  Quality Basic Education  Nutrition  Water, Sanitation and Hygiene  Programme Effectiveness  Child Protection  Social Inclusion  Operational Effectiveness  Programme Spending by Outcome  US$ Millions

10  Figure   2: Expenditure by cost category in US$ million   -   January 2023 to   December 2024  Figure 2 shows the Country Office’s expenditure by key cost categories for 2023 and 2024. The most significant amount was approximately US$81 million in cash and US$45 million in supplies transferred to partners. The audit scope included key controls related to these and other expenses.  81  45  27  4  23  0   10   20   30   40   50   60   70   80   90  Implementing partners  Supplies  Staff Costs  Program related Expert Services  Other Expenses  Programme Spending by Cat egory  US$ Millions

AUDIT OBJECTIVES ,   SCOPE   AND APPROACH  11  The objective of the audit was to   assess the adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk management and control processes related to a selection of identified risk   areas   of the Burkina Faso Country Office.  The audit scope was determined during the audit planning process based on an assessment of the inherent 4   risks   of the Burkina Faso Country Office,   and included the following areas:  •   Risk management  •   Governance and office structure  •   Protection against sexual exploitation and abuse  •   Programme monitoring  •   Partnership Management  •   Accountability to affected populations  •   Cash transfers  •   HACT assurance  •   Emergency response  •   Safety and security  •   Resource mobilization  •   Human resources  •   Service contracts  •   Local procurements  •   Supply planning, inventory and warehouse management, and supply end-user monitoring  The audit fieldwork was conducted in April 2025 in conformance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. For the purpose of audit testing, the audit covered the period from January 2023 to April 2025. The audit involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data analytics, document review, tests of transactions, evaluations and validation of preliminary observations.  4   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control processes.

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  12  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Risk management   High  There are gaps in risk identification in the Country Office risk register, which creates a risk of unaddressed vulnerabilities, aggregated risk categories that hinder the pinpointing of specific mitigating controls, and loosely defined and untracked action points that hinder accountability and the effective implementation of mitigating measures including measures for monitoring risks, developing and updating action points and follow up on action plan implementation   for   specific   risks.   Moreover,   there   is   insufficient   evidence   of   risk management discussions in CMT meetings.  In light of ongoing updates to UNICEF’s risk management framework   5   , there is an opportunity to reinforce strategic alignment and forward-looking risk practices across Country Offices. Even as organization-wide risk management procedures are revised, key responsibilities   around   risk   identification   and   mitigation   remain   central   to   effective programme delivery.   This includes continuing annual assessments and ensuring risk registers reflect the most critical threats to operations and programme outcomes.  The Country Office has integrated risk identification into its standard planning processes, including the ARA/eGRC, AMP, and GRIP exercises, with active participation from both programme and operations teams. Risk mitigation actions are discussed collaboratively and assigned to relevant staff. Still, the internal audit team identified several gaps both in relation to the Country Office risk register, documentation of management-level oversight and measures to be taken for monitoring risks and updating actions taken with regards to addressing specific risks.  Risk register: The Audit team assessed the substance/quality of risk assessments by examining the Country Office risk register for completeness and relevance of risks as well as the adequacy of controls and mitigation measures based on the risks identified during the audit risk assesment and the outcomes of the audit of specified sections. We identified the following gaps:  -   Incomplete   r isk   i dentification :   The Office did not identify critical office-wide risks across programmatic and operational areas. For example, concerning construction projects, despite the country office managing several such projects amounting to US$ 5.7 million, no associated risks have been identified in the risk register. Omission  5   The UNICEF policy on enterprise risk management requires Country Offices to identify, assess, and respond to risk yearly. Moreover, UNICEF's anti-fraud strategy requires country offices to conduct a yearly fraud risk assessment   to   help   their   management   teams   understand   fraud   risks   unique   to   their   programme   and operational activities, develop measures to mitigate identified risks, and identify control weaknesses.

13  of risks could lead to unaddressed vulnerabilities. For example, in construction, vulnerabilities in project management and execution could result in delays, cost overruns, or safety issues.  -   Agg regated   r isk   i dentification :   The risk register identifies risks at an aggregated level   for   several   programmatic   and   operational   areas   without   specifying   a breakdown of individual risks. This also relates to areas where the local context warrants thorough examination, such as risks related to fraud and PSEA. This approach limits the office's ability to pinpoint specific mitigating internal controls and to create action points to address control weaknesses necessary for effective risk management. Without identifying specific risks, it is challenging to develop targeted   mitigation   strategies.   Despite   the   fact   that   the   Country   Office   has integrated risk identification into its standard planning processes, we noted that there were some critical office-wide risks pertaining to construction projects that were not identified.  -   Loosely   d efined   a ction   p oints :   Many action points outlined in the risk register are vaguely defined, making it challenging to measure progress and determine the exact steps required for mitigation. Vague action points hinder accountability and effective implementation of mitigation measures. It becomes difficult to track progress and ensure risks are adequately managed.  -   No   action   points   tracking:   The   Country   Office   does   not   track   action   point implementation, creating a risk that risk mitigating measures are not implemented. As an example, an action point from the 2024 risk register was to conduct a thorough fraud risk assessment in collaboration with the regional office during the year, but this action point had not been completed.  The Country Office had identified a risk management capacity gap before the audit. During the 2024 Programme and Budget Review (PBR), a P3 Risk and Compliance Specialist position was established, with the recruitment process scheduled to commence once the current hiring freeze was lifted.  CMT   risk   management   discussions:   Country   Management   Team   (CMT)   Terms   of Reference detailed in Annex A to the UNICEF procedure on the Country Office annual/rolling management plan and country management team requires the CMT to identify and address any significant risks to achieving the established programme and management results.  The audit team reviewed nine CMT meetings from 2023, six from 2024 and one from 2025. None of the reviewed CMT meeting minutes displayed evidence of specific discussions on risk management in the form of new or changing risks, nor concerning implementing risk management action points. Lack of risk management discussion at management levels creates a risk that the Country Office may not respond promptly to a changing risk landscape. Moreover, inadequate oversight of implementing risk mitigation measures renders the Country Office vulnerable to identified risks. The Country Office had identified the gap in risk management discussions before the audit and decided to include risk

14  management on the agenda every quarter starting in 2025. However, this had yet to be implemented during the audit fieldwork.  Root   Cause:   The   audit   team   attributes   the   root   cause   of   the   above-identified   risk management observations to a combination of different factors, including competing operational priorities and inadequate risk management capacity, which led to a fragmented overall approach with insufficient oversight at various levels across the lines of defence.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office senior management, in coordination with the Regional Office and  the Risk Office, agrees to operationalize risk management and foster a risk-aware  culture by doing the following:  i.   Conduct a comprehensive risk assessment to:  a.   Identify critical programmatic and operational risks relevant to the  Country Office in the risk register;  b.   Break down aggregated risk categories to identify specific risks;  c.   Identify and evaluate the efficiency of current internal controls addressing  the specific risks identified;  d.   Create clearly defined risk mitigation action points based on the results of  the risk assessment.  ii.   Integrate risk management into strategic planning and decision making by  including risk management discussions in the Country Management Team  meetings at a defined frequency/cadence. The discussions should address  changing or new risks and the status of implementing risk management action  points, as well as ongoing monitoring of risks and effectiveness of risk mitigation  strategies.  iii.   Develop a reporting framework that allows for regular updates on risk  management activities to senior management and other stakeholders as  applicable.  Staff Responsible: Planning & monitoring specialist.  Implementation Date: April 2026  2. Cash transfers & HACT assurance   High  The   Country   Office   had   US$   2.6   million   open   balances   in   financial   findings,   with approximately 85 per cent or US$ 2.2 million aged for over three years. The management's follow-up on financial findings needed improvement. Moreover, there were discrepancies in the processing of FACE forms. The country office has changed treatment dates for FACE

15  forms to comply with UNICEF's internal KPIs of 14 days, which hinders the Country Office from correctly identifying and addressing delays.  Finally, the Country Office did not re-evaluate/adapt the implementing partners' HACT risk rating based on findings from assurance activities. It hired a single third-party provider to conduct its spot checks and its audits. The audit team reviewed 26 of these spot check reports; 21 were sent more than six months after field work had been completed. All audits covering 2024 were yet to be finalised. Moreover, the Terms of Reference shared with the service provider did not impose adequate timelines for completion of work.  Between January 2023 and March 2025, the Country Office transferred US$ 85.2 million to implementing partners. Around 45 per cent of these funds were allocated to partners with a significant or high HACT risk rating. Moreover, the Country Office had US$ 2.6 million in financial findings pending documentation from partners but continued, without any change in transfer modality or assurance activities, to transfer US$ 51 million to them.  Under the Harmonized Approach to Cash Transfers (HACT) framework, UNICEF country offices must conduct assurance activities, such as programme visits, spot checks, and audits, to ensure implementing partners' proper use of cash transfers. The framework also mandates timely, complete, and accurate follow-up on financial findings from these assurance activities.   Due to the evolving country context and in line with UNICEF policy on supporting strong internal capacity at local civil society organisations, the Country Office decided to hire an international third-party provider to conduct its spot checks and audits. During the period under review, the office completed 212 spot cheks and 14 audits. The internal audit team assessed the office’s planning, execution, quality assurance and follow- up and made the following observations:  Discrepancies in data processing of FACE forms:   To facilitate timely programme activities, the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook advises that country offices should disburse cash to implementing partners within 14 calendar days of receiving adequately completed FACE forms. The audit identified several inconsistencies in the processing timeline of FACE Forms. In some cases, the Country Office did not process FACE forms within the 14-day KPI deadline. While there were many FACE forms rejected due to errors, the audit team also identified examples of the Country Office rejecting and resubmitting FACE forms to reflect a later receipt date from the implementing partners (IPs), ensuring they appeared to be processed within the KPI timeline. During the audit period, 97.49 per cent of FACE forms were processed on time if we consider the receipt date at the office as registered in Fiori. However, only 58.2 per cent were processed within the KPI when considering the document creation date by the partners. Based on audit findings, given the rejection of FACE forms due to the different reasons noted above, the audit team deems the actual percentage for processing time likely to be somewhere between these two figures. These discrepancies create substantial risks in delaying programme activities and do not allow the office to identify and address the reasons for these delays properly.

16  Long-standing Financial Findings:   The audit team revealed that management's follow-up on financial findings was inadequate. The audit team noted that the office has US$ 2.6 million   open   balances   in   financial   findings   that   have   yet   to   be   investigated.   More importantly, these financial findings were spread over multiple years, with approximately 85 per cent or US$ 2.2 million aged for over three years. The Country Office could not provide any evidence of liaising with donors concerning these financial findings.   The Country Office explained that they were developing a Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) document adapted to the country context, specifically dealing with these financial findings. However, this SOP was yet to be completed at the time of the audit.  Undiversified third-party assurance providers and inflexible timeline: The audit team found that the same service provider completed all spot checks for the period under review; the same applies to the audits. Moreover the timing was not ideal, as the spot checks’ reports were sent to the Country Office more than six months after field work had been completed. Additionally, while on field work, the provider reviewed FACE forms that could be older than nine months. All in all, the Country office receives delayed information that creates heightened risks as issues are not timely reported or followed up on. As for the audits, none of the ones scheduled for 2024, which should have been submitted by January 2025 at the latest, had been finalised during the audit fieldwork. The Country Office explained that to better adapt to the current country context and improve implementing partner capacity, they wanted to contract an international third-party provider able to provide these services. Although the office contacted six different service providers, only two responses were received, and one was contracted. Moreover, the audit team reviewed the ToRs for the spot-checks and found that they did not provide clear and binding timelines for the timing and completion of work. Relying on a sole third-party provider to execute assurance   activities   creates   multiple   risks,   such   as   a   lack   of   flexibility,   familiarity, monotonous review and findings, unavoidable delays or potential conflict of interest situations if the contracting audit firm is also providing services to the implementing partners.  Static HACT risk ratings: According to the UNICEF policy on Entreprise Risk Management, “All UNICEF Offices (Headquarters, Regional and Country) undertake the risk management process (identify, assess, respond and monitor) in order to manage risks relative to the office’s working environment. Consideration of risk is fundamental. It begins during strategy-setting and continues throughout the programme cycle”. However, the audit team found that the Country Office does not adapt its HACT risk rating to financial findings, nor any other findings from assurance activities and relies on intermittent capacity building. Moreover, the audit noted that some of the implementing partners had a high turnover, which creates an environment more prone to risks, such as fraud or decreasing work quality, that could impair the impact of UNICEF’s programmes.

17  Root causes:   The audit team attributes the root causes of these observations of long- standing financial findings and static HACT risk ratings to the lack of a risk-aware culture, insufficient oversight at various levels across the lines of defence concerning cash transfer processing and handling financial findings, and inadequate capacity allocated to the HACT team. In addition there is no provision for KPIs related to financial findings.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to seek support from the RO, DAPM, and DFAM to strengthen  cash transfers and HACT assurance activities by doing the following:  i.   Review financial findings and collaborate with implementing partners to find  adequate documentation to support expenses where relevant. For other  balances, seek to recover the outstanding amount where possible, and for the  remaining amounts not possible to collect, engage with DFAM for write-off;  ii.   Monitor KPIs and the data behind financial findings on a periodic basis and  escalate to the Regional Office and DFAM as required, based on a risk-based  approach and analysis of assurance activities.  iii.   Stop amending dates for the recipient of FACE to comply with KPIs. Start  documenting the reasons for delays in processing FACE forms and using this  data to identify how processing times can be improved;  iv.   Diversify with additional third-party provider(s) for HACT assurance activities and  improve the submitted Terms of Reference to specify the quality and timeliness  of its assurance activities;  v.   Analyse the findings of assurance activities on an ongoing basis, and, if required,  adapt the implementing partners’ HACT risk rating based on findings from  assurance activities.  vi.   Review internal organisation to ensure that the HACT team is provided with  adequate resources for the timely completion of HACT assurance requirements.  Staff Responsible: Programme & planning specialist and Senior finance associate.  Implementation Date: June 2026.  3. Supply planning, inventory and warehouse  management and supply end-user monitoring   High  Supply End User Monitoring has not been conducted since 2023, and logistics assessments were not conducted for major partners receiving supplies; the storage of supplies in partners' warehouses and their receipt by beneficiaries are not tracked. Additionally, lost

18  supplies are not adequately recorded in the corporate system through the Property Survey Board process.  The Country Office delivered supplies valued at US$ 32.7 million to implementing partners. Of this total, US$ 21.1 million was shipped directly to partners, while the remaining US$ 11.6 million   was released from Country Office warehouses .   The   Country   Office   had   four warehouses, in Dori, Fada, Kaya, and Ouagadougou, with a total inventory balance of approximately US$2.2 million. The audit team evaluated the controls related to supply and logistics planning, warehousing and inventory management, and distribution of supplies to partners and beneficiaries and noted the following:  -   End   user   monitoring :   Tracking   UNICEF   supplies   all   the   way   to   the   ultimate beneficiary is a critical component of UNICEF’s monitoring framework, in line with the UNICEF Procedure on Work Planning Partnerships and Risk Management.   The audit team noted that end-user monitoring has not been conducted regularly. Indeed, during the audit period, only one end user monitoring was done in 2024 for the back-to-school campaign. The Country Office (CO) partially attributes the lack of end-user monitoring to limited access caused by security issues. The lack of end-user monitoring restricts the CO's ability to ensure that supplies transferred by the Country Office have reached the final beneficiaries.  -   Logistics   assessments :   The   mandatory   Logistics   Counterpart   Assessment procedure provides an indication of the UNICEF counterparts’ service capacity in effectively and efficiently delivering necessary supplies to children. The audit noted that logistics assessments were not conducted for major partners receiving supplies. The Country Office (CO) explained that they are in the process of undertaking a logistics assessment for major partners, who received 70 per cent of the supplies distributed to partners.  -   Impaired stock : The audit noted that of US$ 51,000 of impaired stock, 94 per cent  was lost. Printed materials valued at US$ 24,500 were lost by the carrier, while packages with computers worth US$ 11,000 were found empty at customs. The Office   attributed   these   losses   to   delivery   misappropriations.   These   incidents occurred between 2015 and 2023, and whilst the losses were recovered from insurance, the Country Office has not written off the lost inventory in Property Survey Board (PSB). The Office attributed this to a backlog in administrative formalities due to contextual constraints.  -   Recording supplies in Vision : The audit team noted inaccuracies in how the Country Office recorded supplies in the Vision corporate system. In some instances, Direction de la Nutrition, was recorded as the recipient of supplies, when, in fact, supplies were received, managed and distributed by the Central Medical Store (CAMEG). In other cases, supplies were directly recorded under the Central Medical Store. Inadequate recording of supplies may lead to unclear accountability for the ownership of the supplies.

19  Root   causes :   The identified   issues were caused by several   factors such as security constraints   limiting   field   access,   with   inadequate   exploration   or   implementation   of alternative remote monitoring mechanisms, lack of procedures for program sections to communicate   distribution   lists   to   logistics,   inadequate   internal   governance   and   risk management processes for timely administrative closure, and write-off procedures for impaired stock, and logistics assessments for major partners receiving supplies, lack of understanding of Vision data entry protocols for recording supplies.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to strengthen supply management by performing the  following:  i.   Conduct end-user monitoring for distributed supplies;  ii.   Assess logistic capacity for major implementing partners;  iii.   Promptly record any impaired stock in the corporate system;  iv.   Establish procedures for the program sections to communicate distribution lists  to the logistics team in a timely manner;  v.   Ensure accurate recording of supplies under the implementing partners that  effectively receive the supplies.  Staff Responsible: Supply & logistics manager under the supervision of the REP and  Dep REP and subject to the monitoring of the RO.  Implementation Date: December 2026  4. PSEA   Medium  The Country Office’s PSEA oversight   needs to be improved. The Country Office operates with numerous   reporting channels without a formal tracking system to allow for adequate monitoring of reports. There is lack of oversight across the lines of defense, inconsistent PSEA monitoring during programmatic visits, and action points are not registered in the eTools action point module. Action plan implementation monitoring for PSEA at the office and inter-agency levels needs to be better structured. Additionally, the Country Office does not oversee subcontractors on PSEA, which drastically increases the risk of spillover effects.  As per the UNICEF Policy on Safeguarding, UNICEF is committed to “work in ways that prevent and reduce the risk of harm to all persons as a result of their contact with UNICEF or the work of the organisation.” UNICEF is following this commitment through different means, such as conducting PSEA assessments of all CSO partners, providing PSEA training to   staff and   partners,   informing   communities,   and   providing   them   with a   safe and accessible reporting system.

20  The Country Office had 76 CSO partners during the audited period, of which 21 had a Medium   SEA   rating.   The   office   provided   communities   with   multiple   PSEA   reporting channels, such as four phone numbers and three email addresses. The audit team assessed whether the Country Office’s PSEA controls were adequate and operating effectively to support UNICEF’s zero-tolerance policy for SEA. The following were noted:  PSEA Monitoring: The Country Office formally monitors CSOs through programmatic visits. As detailed in the following section on programmatic visits, the audit team revealed that PSEA monitoring was not consistently performed for all CSO partner programmatic visits (lack of monitoring for 7 of 22 tested reports where monitoring was applicable). Moreover, action points were not always created to rectify identified weaknesses, and no action points were registered in the eTools action points module. Consequently, this hinders the capacity of the Country Office to properly monitor PSEA in their programme implementation and adapt their management of PSEA risks.  Tracking implementation of Country Office and inter-agency plans: The Country Office develops annual plans to structure its approach to PSEA. The Country Office further forms part of the inter-agency panel on PSEA and was previously the chair agency. However, the Country Office does not have a formal, clear tracking system to monitor its progress in implementing the aforementioned plans. Moreover, some of the action points outlined in the   annual   plan do   not   have a   responsible staff   assigned,   such as   the   “Systematic assessment and reassessment of IPs and introduction   on   UNPP”.  Cumbersome reporting system: During the audit fieldwork , the audit team noted that the Country Office was working with and promoting several reporting channels. Notably, the Country Office created one email address to take over previously used four different internal email addresses i.e.: the OIAI email address, the ONE UN email address, two internal and two external phone numbers. Moreover, the Country Office does not have a tracking system consolidating reports through different reporting options, nor statistical details concerning cases per partner/region/etc that could have been analyzed to detect potential systematic weaknesses for future actions.  Oversight   of   Sub-contractors:   The   UNICEF   Programme   Implementation   Handbook  requires any sub-contracted CSO (or secondary organisation) in charge of an activity that involves contact with beneficiaries to be assessed by the partner within six months, to cover the downstream risk. The audit team noted that the Country Office did not systematically monitor   PSEA awareness initiatives and training at the sub-contractor level, thus leaving the office vulnerable to reputational risks.  Root causes: The above-identified issues were mainly due to a combination of different factors, including poor communication and oversight from the Country Office management concerning   monitoring expectations and weak accountability mechanisms for ensuring that

21  PSEA monitoring is completed and documented, which hinder the Country Office in properly managing its PSEA risks.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to enhance PSEA oversight by doing the following:  i.   Improve and systematise the tracking of action plans at the Country Office level  by assigning responsible staff to capture PSEA impact better;  ii.   Restructure the current PSEA reporting system to create a lean and more  efficient model that allows for analysis of systemic weakness for future actions;  conduct regular reviews of the reporting process to identify areas for  improvement based on the changing context.  iii.   Create a subcontractor PSEA monitoring system to promote PSEA awareness and  encourage them via training, awareness initiatives and monitoring to report  PSEA incidents.  Staff Responsible: Programme specialist under the supervision of the REP and Dep REP  subject to RO monitoring.  Implementation Date: December 2026.  5. Programme monitoring and reporting of results   Medium  The quality of monitoring activities needs strengthening as it did not provide sufficient oversight of the country programme implementation. While the Country Office conducts the required number of programmatic visits, the audit team identified several weaknesses in the programmatic visit reports, such as a lack of reference to Programme Documents and activities to be monitored, inadequate monitoring of PSEA, insufficient narrative to support report conclusions, and insufficient oversight over action points as these are not recorded in the eTools action points module. Moreover, the Country Office has not yet implemented the collection of partner quarterly reports in eTools.  Good   programme   monitoring   supports   decision-making   by   programme   managers, adaptive   management,   organizational   learning   and   accountability   to   programme stakeholders. According to the UNICEF Procedure on Monitoring, Country offices are expected to maintain a structured and coordinated office-wide monitoring and data system to ensure that monitoring activities are planned and implemented and that results are used to support effective programmatic delivery. However, the audit team found that monitoring weaknesses hampered the effort to achieve their intended purpose. In particular, the audit team identified the following:

22  P rogrammatic   visits:   The UNICEF HACT framework requires that programmatic visits   be undertaken for all implementing partners (IPs) receiving more than $2,500 annually. These visits aim to review progress towards achieving planned results, identify challenges and constraints in implementation, and determine ways to address them. While the Country Office performs the required number of programmatic visits, sampling of programmatic visit reports identified weaknesses concerning adequate linkage to program documents , activities and outcomes subject to testing (13 of 24 reports tested), lack of PSEA monitoring (7 of 22 reports where such monitoring was applicable), inadequate evidence of review or self-review (3   of   24   reports   tested).   Moreover,   findings   in 10   programmatic reports warranted follow-up action points. The Country Office had only drafted action points for six of these reports. However, for these six, the action points were included in the report narrative instead of being recorded in the eTools action points module, hindering oversight and tracking of action point implementation.  Partner   Quarterly   Reports:   Implementing   partners   are   required   by   the   UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook to submit quarterly progress reports using the eTools Partner Reporting Portal (PRP) or, for those partners without internet access, via paper forms uploaded in eTools. These reports must include the progress of planned activities and the implementation of PSEA measures. According to eTools as of 15 April 2025, all required quarterly reports since January 2023 were overdue and were not documented in the Partners Reporting Portal module in eTools as mandated. The audit team was informed that CSO partners did not submit their quarterly reports in the PRP because the Country Office was scheduled to implement the PRP in October 2024. However, due to a lack of capacity, implementation had not yet started, and the Country Office stated that full implementation was planned to be reached by the end of 2025. There was currently no practice in place for collecting and organizing quarterly reports from partners, although, for some partners, reports were attached as supporting evidence to programmatic visit reports. These reporting gaps may hinder the Country Office's ability to track the progress of implementing activities and substantiate the results to Headquarters and donors while ensuring that intended beneficiaries are receiving the services.  Root causes: The audit team was informed that the above issues are partially caused by lenient internal review processes of programmatic visit reports, which were not fully standardisedas well as limited   capacity due to   the workload of the monitoring and evaluation team.  AGREED ACTIONS ,  The Country Office agrees to enhance the quality of programmatic visits by doing the  following:  i.   Develop a checklist for staff conducting visits and reviewers to evaluate before  accepting report drafts, listing report requirements, including, but not limited to:

23  a.   Adequate referencing to programme documents and activities/outcomes  to be tested;  b.   PSEA monitoring for CSO partners;  c.   Creating eTools action points to address identified shortcomings;  d.   Include sufficient narrative to substantiate conclusions.  ii.   Improve oversight over partner monitoring by implementing the collection and  recording of partner reports in the eTools Quarterly Partner Report module.  iii.   Strengthen the programmatic visit review process to verify that reports include  monitoring of relevant elements, include adequate narratives to support  conclusions, and that action points are raised in eTools and monitored  adequately.  Staff Responsible: Chief planning, monitoring & evaluation and Programme and  planning specialist.  Implementation Date: January 2026.  6. Partnership management   Medium  The Country Office lacks the proper documentation to explain the delay in finalising Programme Documents (PDs) and Simplified/Humanitarian Programme Documents (SPDs). Further, due to the country context, the Country Office often used the direct partner selection modality. However, these selections lacked adequate documentation of the rationale as to why the direct selection modality was used. Moreover, when conducting its due diligence on implementing partners, the office relies on UNPP information verified through a desk review, without conducting additional risk-based due diligence and does not systematically link relevant information to the Country Office risk registry.  Under the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook, “Due Diligence verification is conducted on prosespective civil soeciety partners to ensure their alignment with United Nations core values.” In a risk-management perspective, the Country Office must verify that partners do not pose unacceptable risks to the organisation and the beneficiaries. This includes, but is not limited to, PSEA, fraud and corruption, child safeguarding violations or any particular risk identified. Moreover, the Country Office is required to process PDs and SPDs in a maximum of 45 and 15 days, respectively. The office is also responsible for having “transparent open selection[…].” and “Where open selection is not feasible, offices select CSO partners using a direct selection process[…]”. According to the same Handbook, the offices should clearly explain why partners were directly selected. The audit team made the following observations:  Weak Due Diligence: The Country Office did not perform additional background checks to verify the accuracy of information provided by implementing partners in the UNP portal.

24  Further background checks are crucial in properly addressing specific risks, particularly taking into consideration the high risk country context the Country Office is operating within.  Delay in finalising PDs & SPDs: Audit testing revealed that 38 per cent (16 out of 42) of PDs active during the audit period were not signed within the required timeframe. Similarly, 46 per cent (53 out of 113) of active SPDs were signed beyond the 15-day deadline. Although the Country Office regularly communicates these deadlines at key management meetings, it could not provide documentation on the reasons for these delays.  Lack of transparency on Direct Selection: Despite the fact that direct selection should be reserved for exceptional cases, there is a lack of clear and adequate justification for such decisions.   The   audit   team   found   that   the   Country   Office   did   not   provide   sufficient information, documentation and/or contextualisation in five out of nine direct selections reviewed.  Root Causes:   The audit team recognises that the above issues are partially caused by poor risk management and weak oversight at all levels, leading to a non-systematic approach to documentation and limited capacity due to the programme sections workload.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office with support from the RO agrees to strengthen partnership  management processes by doing the following:  i.   Conduct enhanced implementing partner due diligence, considering relevant  risks identified in the Country Office risk registry;  ii.   Analyse root causes of delays in finalising programme documents and use the  results to identify actions to improve the processing time;  iii.   Document adequate rationale for the direct selection of implementing partners  and use direct selection only in exceptional cases when open selection is not  feasible.  Staff Responsible: Chief planning, monitoring & evaluation and Programme and  planning specialist.  Implementation Date: December 2026.  7. Accountability to affected populations   Medium  The   Country   Office   lacks   a   formal   structure   to   work   on   accountability   to   affected populations (AAP). It relies on an informal group of staff, which hinders the office's

25  accountability and implementation of its AAP framework. Moreover, the office has yet to finalize its AAP framework for 2025-2027.  Under the AAP framework, UNICEF country offices must implement mechanisms to ensure that the voices of affected populations are heard and integrated into programmatic decisions.   This   includes   establishing   clear   roles   and   responsibilities,   developing comprehensive strategies, and utilising appropriate tools and resources. The framework also requires timely, complete, and accurate follow-up on feedback and issues raised by affected populations. The audit team made the following observations:  No Formalised Structure to Manage AAP: The Country Office did not have a formalised structure to manage AAP and relied on an informal group of section chiefs to handle the day-to-day AAP tasks. Although the informal group was working on the 2025-2027 Country Office AAP strategy and could rely on information from the emergency team, this informal structure without a clear overall responsibility creates a risk that the Country Office is not meeting its responsibilities towards affected populations. This informal structure also limits the Country Office's participation and accountability toward the strategy developed for the country by the working group on community engagement and accountability .  Root Causes: The audit team attributes the root causes of the above-mentioned issues to the absence of a clear, responsible focal point, and lack of clearly defined roles and responsibilities. Moreover, the Country Office had not allocated adequate capacity to finalise the AAP strategy.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Create a formal structure to manage AAP and appoint a dedicated focal point;  ii.   Finalise the AAP strategy for 2025-2027.  Staff Responsible: Chief field operations.  Implementation Date: December 2025.  8. Resource mobilization   Medium  The Country Office has a comprehensive resource mobilization strategy outlining the current donor landscape and new institutional donors to be targeted. While suggested strategies for activities are in place, there is no clearly identified pathway as to how the Country Office will work to convert efforts into mobilized funds.

26  Although the Country Office has some activity tracking systems in place, there is room to improve these with more information on planned initiatives, results of completed initiatives and ways going forward, and also to include continuous evaluation of efforts, ensuring that the Country Office focuses its work on resource mobilization efforts more likely to generate outcomes. Lastly, whilst donors expressed general satisfaction with UNICEF, they also communicated a room to improve communication further, which can build on current donor satisfaction, and identify additional opportunities.  Burkina Faso’s shifting political alliances and traditional donor countries being subject to reduced funding budgets, particularly the US, the second largest donor to the Country Office, have contributed to a difficult resource mobilization context. Meanwhile, the Country Office HAC appeal has been chronically underfunded, raising only 15 per cent of the 2023 appeal and 13 per cent of the 2024 appeal. The Country Office has recognized the above funding risks in its risk register and developed a fundraising strategy focusing on working with traditional donors whilst simultaneously building relationships with new institutional donors.  Resource mobilization strategy: The Country Office has developed a comprehensive strategy for Resource Mobilization for the period 2022 to 2025, incorporating specific inputs from various sections. The strategy is fragmented and section-based rather than being consolidated into a clear, cohesive strategy. Moreover, the strategy is overly reliant on historical statistical data and the activities intended to be funded, rather than focusing on how mobilization efforts are expected to deliver outcomes in raising additional funding. Additionally, there is insufficient central oversight and tracking of mobilization activities, and no recurring evaluation of the effectiveness of different initiatives.  The current approach poses several risks:  -   Lack of outcome focus: By emphasizing historical data and funding activities rather than outcomes, the strategy may fail to prioritize initiatives that deliver the most significant impact.  -   Inadequate oversight: The absence of central oversight and tracking can lead to inefficiencies and   a   lack   of   accountability,   potentially resulting   in   resource misallocation and missed opportunities for improvement.  -   Fragmentation:   The   strategy's   fragmented   nature,   due   to   the   lack   of consolidation of inputs from different sections, may lead to inconsistencies and a lack of coherence in the overall resource mobilization efforts, undermining its effectiveness.  Communication with donors: The audit team met with five key donors during the fieldwork. All communicated a strong and efficient working relationship with UNICEF and the timely receipt of financial and narrative reports. Still, several donors wished to receive more detailed information concerning details of UNICEF’s work exceeding what they receive in classic reporting data from UNICEF.   Additionally, one donor presented a previously

27  unexplored opportunity for financing further projects during the donor's budget review processes. The above indicates a risk that the current good relationship with donors could suffer if requests are not adequately responded to. Moreover, a risk is that the Country Office is not currently fully exploring opportunities available with the current donor base.  Root Cause: The audit team attributes the root cause of the above-identified resource mobilisation observations to inadequate capacity allocated to resource mobilisation, and an insufficient structure with responsibilities currently shared amongst the section heads, diluting overall accountability.  The Country Office had identified a resource mobilization capacity gap before the audit. A Resource Mobilisation Specialist position is intended to be established, with the recruitment process scheduled to commence once the current hiring freeze is lifted.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office, with the support of the RO and the Division of Private Fundraising  and Partnerships, agrees to:  i.   Revise the current Resource Mobilization Strategy to clearly define resource  mobilization initiatives, oversight and tracking mechanisms, including  coordination and responsibilities across section heads, and how resource  mobilization initiatives are expected to drive future funding;  ii.   Develop a more comprehensive system to track and manage mobilization efforts,  including:  a.   Meeting scheduling and agenda planning;  b.   Consolidation of inputs across sections;  c.   Defining and meeting outcomes of resource mobilisation strategy;  d.   Improved communication with donors;  e.   Follow-up on action points;  f.   Ongoing review of resource mobilization efforts to concentrate efforts on  activities most likely to generate outcomes.  Staff Responsible: Chief communication, advocacy & partnerships.  Implementation Date: April 2026.  9. Service Contracts   High  The   Country   Office   has   implemented   a   comprehensive   monitoring   framework   with adequate staff for direct construction projects, ensuring guarantees are in place and that progress payments are linked to certified completion milestones. However, there are

28  opportunities for improvement, such as clearly defining service requirements, conducting risk-informed   reviews   by   the   Contract   Review   Committee   (CRC),   and   enhancing   the monitoring of indirect construction activities.  Between January 2023 and March 2025, the Country Office purchased services amounting to US$21.8 million, including approximately US$5,7 million of construction and US$5.2 millionofWash.  Poorly Defined Requirements: All procurement should be based on a clear definition of requirements for goods or services to enable fair and equitable competition. The audit team noted that the criteria in terms of references against which request for quotation offers are technically evaluated in many cases are not adequately defined. This led to deviations in quotations both in terms of quantity and quality. A likely outcome is that inadequate precision in terms of references can result in the Country Office not being able to obtain the best value for money option available.  Bid   Opening   Committee: According   to   the   UNICEF   procedure   on   management   and evaluation of offers, Country Offices must establish Bid Opening Committees to oversee the formal, non-public opening of Request for Proposal (RFP) offers. The audit team noted that the Bid Opening Committee was not performing effectively. After the technical evaluation stage, two vendors initially deemed technically capable were disqualified due to non- compliance. This decision was inconsistent with the Opening Committee's assessment, which had confirmed the vendors' compliance. The office attributed this discrepancy to a lack of operating procedures and oversight. The inconsistency between the Opening Committee's assessment and the procurement evaluation's conclusion raises risk relating to the integrity and consistency of the procurement evaluation process. The Country Office stated that they were in the process of developping a standard operating procedure for the Bid opening committee, working to address the stated lack of operating procedures.  Contract   Review   Committee: The UNICEF policy on the Contracts Recommendation Review and Award stipulates that CRC is an advisory body assembled to support risk management and facilitate an independent review of the procurement process for higher value goods and services exceeding predetermined financial limits. The CRC ensures that the proposed contract is competitive, and risk informed; aligned with “Value for Money” principles and objectives; Conducted with integrity, transparency, fairness, timeliness and efficiency.  The audit team reviewed the selection process for construction projects and noted the following:  -   Concerning a large construction project amounting to USD 3.9 million and divided into four lots, the Country Office awarded two lots worth USD 2.2 million to one contractor whose capacity had not been proven, as this was their first contract with the Country Office. Moreover, the Supply Evaluation Unit (SEU) rated this vendor as

29  a significant risk, but the Country Office had not implemented adequate risk mitigation measures. Consequently, during the audit fieldwork, the audit team noted that the construction of the two lots funded by grants that were expiring soon was delayed by three months.  -   SEU recommendations are not systematically conducted and considered during CRC reviews for major vendors. When done, these recommendations are not considered during CRC meetings to ensure adequate risk mitigation measures.  -   Not all CRC members have received training, which could impact their ability to review and manage risks effectively.  The audit team also noted that for one instance of local procurement tested from a sample of 17 purchase orders as part of the following section on local procurements, the CRC did not select the best value-for-money supplier or adequately document the reason for awarding the contract. Lack of documentation and transparency in the decision-making process could lead to questions about the integrity and fairness of the procurement process.  Grant expiration monitoring: Per the UNICEF procedure on Grant management, the Country Office is expected to implement activities before the grant expiry dates. After the expiry date, no further expenditure (as defined in donor financial statements) is issued or authorized for the contribution. If activities cannot be completed within the grant period, an extension should be sought from the donor before the grant expiry.  The audit team noted that grants are not adequately monitored. For instance, two ongoing WASH projects operate on expired grants, while ongoing construction works are funded by grants set to expire in July 2025. The office explained that these issues are due to delays in project implementation caused by contextual challenges and financial capacity constraints. The audit team also observed that, within the warehousing section tested below, supplies valued at US$ 350,000 are currently stored in the warehouse under an expired grant. Failure to adequately monitor grants could lead to reputational risks with donors.  Indirect   construction:   The   Country   Office`s   implementing   partners   completed construction amounting to US$ 4.1 million between January 2023 and March 2025. This indirect construction includes the construction of wash facilities, rehabilitation of water points, and solar water points.  The UNICEF procedure on Construction project specified that indirect implementation with CSOs for construction projects up to USD 100,000 per CSO in a calendar year, where the CSO has the capacity and makes financial or non-financial contributions to the project and use the Special Conditions for Construction under PCA; indirect implementation with CSOs for values above USD 100,000 is not allowed.

30  The audit team noted that indirect construction projects with CSO partners do not align with established indirect construction procedures. Specifically, total indirect construction by 11 CSOs amounted to USD 1.7 million, with individual CSOs holding indirect construction contracts exceeding the individual authorized threshold of USD 100,000. Additionally, for these partners, the Country Office has relied on results from micro-assessments without conducting any capacity assessments for construction projects. This componds the risks pertaining to managing construction activities. Further, risks related to these construction projects have not been evaluated. These projects were managed by program sections unaware of the indirect construction procedures. Unsuitable selection of implementation modalities or partners for construction projects can lead to significant inefficiencies and increase fraud risks.  Root causes: The audit team assesses that the above issues are caused by weak risk management processes, lack of oversight and operating procedures, the CRCs capacity to mitigate risk, and the lack of allocated staff to follow up on indirect construction with CSOs.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Define precise and clear procurement requirements in terms of references,  enabling service providers to better respond to Country Office requirements and  facilitate more efficient competition;  ii.   Provide annual training to the Bid Committee and Contract Review Committee  members, outlining role requirements and related risk management  considerations;  iii.   Conduct Supply Evaluation Unit (SEU) evaluations for all major vendors and  consider these results in the CRC to ensure adequate risk mitigation measures;  iv.   Allocate a focal point to oversee all indirect construction projects and take  responsibility for compliance with indirect construction procedures and grant  management.  Staff Responsible: Deputy Representative Operations & Supply and logistics manager.  Implementation Date: June 2026.  10. Local Procurements   Medium  The Country Office lacks sufficient internal control and oversight over the procurement of supplies. This includes deficiencies in the technical evaluation process, improper use of Long-Term Agreements (LTAs), and the absence of a price list for regularly procured items, which increases the risk of fraud and inefficiencies.

31  Between January 2023 and March 2025, the Country Office locally purchased supplies amounting to US$18.8 million, including approximately US$10 million of therapeutic food.  The audit team reviewed a sample of 17 purchase orders (PO) and identified the following inefficiencies, control- and oversight gaps in the procurement process:  -   Improper use of LTA : The UNICEF procedure on contractual instruments stipulates that a long-term agreement is a written agreement with one or multiple vendors that is established for a defined period for specific goods or services at prescribed prices or pricing provisions and with no legal obligation to order. In one instance, the Country Office used an active LTA to procure a supply not listed in the LTA. This means the Office used a referenced item with set prices to buy a different item. This practice undermines the integrity of the procurement process and could lead to financial discrepancies.  -   Variance   in   prices : Best practices recommend implementing internal controls to prevent and detect discrepancies in procurement pricing. The audit noted two instances of items procured locally during the same period at different prices. Besides, the quotations received were priced very differently, with price differences up to fivefold. Whilst   a   market   assessment   had   been   made   regionally,   this   did   not   include   an assessment of price. Moreover, LTAs were not set up for all recurrent procurement. The Country Office highlighted that this is due to a highly volatile economic context that reflects market realities. Still, this lack of consistency and oversight into pricing could lead to inefficiencies and increased costs, impacting the overall value for money in the procurement process.  Root causes: The audit team attributes that the above issues are partially caused by a lack of documentation and traceability, no market assessment made on local prices and insufficient use of LTAs for recurrent items.  AGREED ACTIONS  The Country Office agrees to:  i.   Implement strong oversight mechanisms to monitor that all end user  monitoring, logistics assessment and recording of supplies are conducted  efficiently and adequately;  ii.   Launch a local market assessment and establish LTAs for recurrent  procurements.  Staff Responsible: Supply and logistics manager.  Implementation Date: December 2026.

32  Definition s   of Audit   Observation   Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity, area, activity or process or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns   a potential opportunity for improvement in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low- priority observations are reported to management during the audit but are not included in the audit report. Action in response to the observation is desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to a weakness or deficiency in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution within a reasonable period to avoid adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process, or for UNICEF as a whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management, and control processes were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, and control processes were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, or control processes needed major improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes were not adequately established or did not function well. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  A PPENDIX

33  Published by UNICEF Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI)  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St, New York, NY 10017  ADDCONTACTEMAIL@unicef.org  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation  Report No.   2025/19  © United Nations Chldren’s Fund (UNICEF) , [December, 2025