# 2025 OIAI Audit Report of Albania Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2111/file/2025-albania-country-office-audit-report.PDF.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2111/file/2025-albania-country-office-audit-report.PDF.pdf)

---

Report on the   i nternal   a udit of the  Albania Country Office  M AY   202 5  Report 202 5 / 0 6  UNICEF OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT AND INVESTIGATIONS

C ONTENTS  Executive Summary   ................................ ................................ ................................ ..   2  Overall   c onclusion  Summary of   o bservations and   a greed   a ctions  Context   ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................   5  Audit Objectives ,   Scope   and Approach   ................................ ................................ ...   7  Observations and Management Action Plan   ................................ .........................   8  1.   Programmatic   m onitoring  2.   Protection from   s exual   e xploitation and   a buse  3.   Procurement and   s ervice   c ontract s  Appendix ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................   15  Definition s   of   a udit   o bservation   r atings  Definition s   of   o verall   a udit   c onclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  2  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an   audit of the   UNICEF  Albania Country Office , covering the period from   January 2024   to   February 2025 .   The audit  was conducted   from   3   to   1 3   February 2025   in   conformance   with   the Institute of Internal  Auditors’ Global   Interna l Audit   Standards.   The overarching objective was to   assess the  adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management ,   and   control processes  related to   a selection of significant risk   areas   of the   country   o ffice   (CO) .   The   specific   risks  evaluated are   set out   in the Audit Objective, Scope and Approach   s ection of this report .  The   UNICEF   Albania Country Office   ( ACO )   supports   Albania ’s   national development priorities  at   the   policy level   such as   the   agenda for children and   gender   equality   and   support s  decentralization processes to   make   subnational structures   more effective for children .   The  ACO   also   supports   the   country’s   European   Union   accession   process ,   leverag ing   the  European Union Child Rights Strategy   for adv o c ac y .   During the period audited, the   ACO  transferred approximately US$ 5. 3   million to   32   implementing partners,   most of which   we re  civil society organization (CSO)   partners ,   representing 5 4   per cent of total expenditure .  There were several risks related to these cash transfers to implementing partners and to  the procurement and monitoring of   programme   supplies. The audit, therefore, sought to  determine whether and how the   ACO   managed those risks.  Overall   c onclusion  Based   on   the   audit   work   performed,   OIAI  concluded that the assessed governance, risk  management,   or   control   processes   were  Partially   Satisfactory,   Improvement  Needed   meaning   that   the   weaknesses   or  deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a  materially   negative   impact   on   the  performance   of   the   audited   entity,   area,  activity, or process   ( s ee the Appendix for   definition s   of   the   conclusion ratings ) .  Summary of   o bservations and   a greed   a ctions  OIAI   noted   the following   noteworthy   practices   that   were   innovative or exceed ed   expected  levels   of control :  •   Private sector   fundraising:   In 2024 , t he   ACO   engaged   13   pr ivate   sector partners   and  raised   US $100,000   in   funds   through the   digital platform of a   private partner. The   ACO  finalized the terms of reference   for   the Albania Private Sector Advisory Board   in  December 2024   and   appointed several board members .   The   ACO   also developed the  Private Sector Fundraising Strategy 2025 - 2030 for engaging with the private sector and  other potential funding partners.  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory,   Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

3  The audit   team   made   several   observations   related to the management of the key risks  evaluated .   In particular, OIAI noted :  Programme   monitoring :   Programmatic   visit   reports   were   weak   due   to   inadequate  oversight, with insufficient quality assurance and a lack of systematic recording of action  points to track implementation.   S upply end - user monitoring   (SEUM)   was   not   explicitly  documented   during   programmatic visits   to   provide reasonable assurance the supp lies   had  reached the intended   beneficiaries .  Prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse   (PSEA) :   The re was no PSEA specific risk in  the   ACO ’s   annual risk assessment   and   PSEA   considerations were not documented during  programmatic visits .  Procurement and service contrac t s :   The re were gaps in procurement   planning   and   the  ACO   did not consistently obtain d eclarations of impartiality   from technical evaluation teams .  The table below summarizes the key actions   management has agreed to take to address  the residual risks identified and the ratings of those risks and observations with respect to  the assessed governance, risk management and control processes ( s ee the definitions of  the observation ratings in the Appendix) .  OBSERVATION RATING  Category of  Process   Area or   o peration and   k ey   r ecommended   a ction   Rating  Controls  processes  Programme   m onitoring (Observation 1 ):   The   ACO   should  improve the programmatic monitoring visit quality assurance  process during the transition to field monitoring module in  eTools ,   ensure that all actions are recorded in eTools and  followed up ,   and   document   SEUM   reviews   for supplies delivered  by   implementing partners.  Medium  PSEA   (Observation 2 ):   The   ACO   should document PSEA related  considerations during programmatic visits and include   sexual  exploitation and abuse (S EA ) / sexual harassment ( SH )   risks as a  separate risk category in future annual risk assessments.  Medium  Service   c ontracts (Observation 3):  The   ACO   should regularly monitor and update the procurement  plan to facilitate effective monitoring of service contracts ;   and  consistently obtain   d eclarations of impartiality to confirm  absence of conflict of interest during technical evaluations.  Medium

4  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk  management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit.  The role of the OIAI   is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk  management and control processes.  Eva Mavroeidi  Deputy Director, Internal Audit  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations

CONTEXT  5  Albania   has recently achieved   upper - middle - income   status and   is implementing important  reforms towards European Union integration and economic growth revitalization.  For 10 years, the   economy has grown by 2 – 5 per cent per year.   In   2021 , the estimated  population of Albania   wa s 2.83 million, including   approximately 300,000 girls and 315,000  boys. The population has been decreasing since 2001, primarily because of emigration and  a declining birth rate.  The 2022 - 2026 country   programme   aligns with national development priorities, including  the National Agenda for Children, National Gender Equality Strategy 2021 – 2030, the draft  third National Strategy for Development and Integration 2022 – 2030, the National Health  Strategy 2021 – 2025, the   National Education Strategy 2021 – 202 6 , the National Action Plan  on Deinstitutionalization 2020 – 2022, the National Action Plan for Persons with Disability  2021 – 2025 and the National Cyber Security Strategy 2020 – 2025. The   count ry   programme  will support implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention  on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention of the  Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the Universal Periodic Review recommend ations and  will support achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.  ACO expenses are demonstrated by category for the period 1 January to 31 December 2024  (  see   F igure 1 ). Major categories of expenditure were cash assistance (US$5.2 million), other  expenses (US$3.3 million) and employee benefits (US$2.5 million).  Figure   1:   Country o ffice expense category   -   January to December 2024  $5.2  $3.3  $2.5  $0.3   $0.2  Albania CO 2024 expenses US$m  CASH ASSISTANCE   OTHER EXPENSES  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS   PROGRAM RELATED EXPERT SERVICES  TRANSFER OF PROGRAMME SUPPLIES

6  ACO   expenditure in 2024 by   programme   outcome   is shown below (  see   F igure   2 ) . Major  programmes   supported were   p rotecting   c hildren ( US $4.2 million) and   s chool - aged   c hildren  and   a dolescents ( US $3.3 million). These   programmes   reflect the strategic priorities outline d  in the   c ountry   programme   d ocument 2021 - 2026.  Figure   2:   Country o ffice   e xpenditure by   programme   outcome   -   January to   December  2024  $982,694.00  $3,285,372.00  $4,255,967.00  $410,229.00  $226,989.00   $626,455.00  YOUNG CHILDREN   SCHOOL AGED CHILDREN AND ADOLOSCENTS  PROTECTING CHILDREN   ENABLING ENVIRONMENT  OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS   PROGRAMME EFFECTIVENESS

AUDIT OBJECTIVES SCOPE AND APPROACH  7  The overarching objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of  governance , risk management ,   and control processes across a selection of significant risk  areas of the   ACO , including control environment, programme management, cash transfers  to implementing partners , service contract s   and   harmonized approach to cash transfers  ( HACT )   activities .  The audit scope   was determined during the audit planning process based on an assessment  of the   inherent 1   risks   and included the following areas:  •   Governance and   a ccountability  •   Risk management  •   PSEA  •   Partnership   m anagement  •   Programme   m onitoring  •   Private   s ector   f undraising  •   Cash   t ransfers to   i mplementing   p artners  •   Service   c ontract   m anagement  •   HACT   a ssurance   a ctivities  The audit   fieldwork   was conducted from   3 to   1 3   February 2025   in   conformance   with   the  Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global   Internal Audit Standards.   For the purpose of audit  testing, the audit covered the period from   January 2024   to   February 2025 .   The audit   involved  a combination of methods, tools, and techniques, including interviews, data analytics,  document   review,   tests   of   transactions,   site   visits   and   validation   of   preliminary  observations.  1   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including  internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be  should the adverse event o ccur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control  processes.

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  8  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below :  1 .   Programme monitoring   M edium  Quality assurance over programmatic visit reports need s   strengthening. Recommendations  from   programmatic visits   were not systematically recorded to facilitate tracking and follow -  up of action points,   potentially impacting the delivery of results.   In addition,   SEUM   efforts  were not   explicitly documented in programmatic visits ; hence,   it   could not   be   determine d  whether the supplies provided   to implementing   partners had   reached   the   intended  beneficiaries .  Programme monitoring visits   (PMVs) :   PMVs are a means of obtaining programmatic  assurance and verification of   results achieved   and   the use of   resources in implementing  activities and of PSEA.  An audit sample of 12   out of 49   programmatic visits   completed during the year   for   11  implementing partners highlighted the following issues:  •   In eight cases, the   reports did not make clear reference to the   output and activities  being   monitored and   verified   in the programme documents.  •   In   three   cases, the reports did not have clear evidence of verification of the results  achieved and use of resources, thus may not qualify as programmatic visits.  •   In all 12   cases, the use of resources by the partner   was   not covered.  •   In eight out of   nine   reports   with follow - up actions, the   ACO   had not rate d   the priority  of these actions and had not recorded them in eTools for tracking   and follow - up .   I n  one   case, the   ACO   said it had followed up and implemented the actions.  Root   c ause(s) :   These issues arose   due to   insufficient   quality assurance of the reports   by  supervisors   in the   p rogramme   section   and   lack of adequate oversight in monitoring action  points .   In addition,   the   ACO   had not updated the programmatic visit template   to   include  the   monitoring of   PSEA and   end - use of supplies   required   in the 2022 UNICEF procedure on  monitoring .  In 2025, the ACO discontinued the template and instructed staff to use the Field Monitoring  Module (FMM) in eTools for recording programmatic visits. This transition presents an  opportunity to enhance the quality and improve the oversight of PMVs.

9  SEUM :   UNICEF   COs   should perform SEUM to verify that programme supplies reach intended  beneficiaries in the planned quality and quantity.   The results of SEUM should be explicitly  documented   in programmatic visits.  The   ACO   delivered   US $ 55 , 0 00   worth   of   supplies   to   four   partners   in   2024 .   In   the  programmatic visit   reports   of   two CSO   partners   that received   US $37,000 supplies   from  UNICEF ,   the audit   did not find any   documented   evidence of   SEUM .   Likewise, i n   the   other  two cases   of government partners   that received   US $18,000   worth of   supplies   without cash  transfers ,   the   ACO   did not conduct any programmatic visits   to verify the end - use of supplies.  Root   c ause(s):   The   ACO   did not   prioritize   SEUM   in   the   risk matrix ( u pstream country  programming )   and   clarified tha t   t he supply component is a   small proportion of overall  programme   funding .   W hile   SEUM   was not explicitly documented   within programmatic  visits, supplies were distributed   in close coordination with partners , and no concerns were  raised regarding their use.   Without documentation   o f   SEUM   efforts ,   the audit   could not  determine whether the supplies provided to implementing partners had reached the  intended beneficiaries   and were of suitable quality and benefit to the end - user.  AGREED   ACTION S  The   ACO   will :  Develop and implement an offline monitoring checklist/template for programmatic visits,  compliant with eTools FMM module :  i.   Finalize and validate the customized offline monitoring   c hecklist/questionnaire  aligned with eTools FMM module ;  ii.   Present and discuss the checklist during the April   p rogramme   m eeting for  endorsement and feedback ;  iii.   Coach relevant staff on the use of the customized checklist to ensure consistent  quality assurance and follow - up ;  iv.   Conduct structured self - audit of 10 field trip reports (May – July) to assess and  validate quality improvements in programmatic visits .  Train all programme specialists to use   eTools   FMM :  v.   Provide one - to - one support and refresher sessions on using the eTools FMM to  all   programme   specialists throughout Q2 ;

1 0  vi.   Monitor usage of FMM to ensure programmatic visits are properly entered and  tracked ;  vii.   Reinforce requirement for supervisor approval of all   f ield  m onitoring/ p rogrammatic   v isits as part of quality assurance ;  viii.   Reinforce internal guidance requiring supervisor review/approval before  finalizing visit records in eTools.  Ensure that all   action points from programmatic visits are recorded, tracked and timely  closed in eTools :  ix.   Finalize integration of action point tracking into eTools for all programmatic  visits ;  x.   Conduct monthly reviews of   action points   during   p rogramme   s ection meetings,  with summaries documented and stored in the shared   p rogramme   d rive ;  xi.   Integrate FMM usage follow - up in monthly programme section meetings ;  Document   SEUM   reviews for supplies delivered to implementing partners :  xii.   Share the   SEUM checklist/annex template with programme teams and ensure  consistent use in supply monitoring ;  xiii.   Conduct SEUM during field visits to verify supply delivery and use,   particularly  for items distributed through implementing partners ; and ,  xiv.   Collect and upload partner confirmation letters and field visit reports to the  designated SEUM   e vidence   f older.  Staff   r esponsible:   Deputy   r epresentative/ i mplementing   p artner   m anagement f ocal  p oint / b udget owners/ p rocurement   a ssociate  Implementation   d ate:   31 July 2025  2 . Prevention   of sexual exploitation and abuse   Medium  Documentation of   PSEA   considerations   in programmatic visits need s   strenthening.   There  was   no documented evidence of PSEA considerations in programmatic visits   which may  result in   limited   visibility on compliance to PSEA indicators by partners .   SEA/SH   risks were  also not documented in the   ACO ’s   annual risk assessment .  Albania has hosted Afghan refugees in the northwestern town of Shenjin since 2021. The  ACO   has been working with implementing partners to provide humanitarian assistance  which present ed   risks of SEA   and the need for   strengthened   PSEA   environment.

11  The   ACO   has establish ed   structures to manage and address PSEA related aspects   and   has  an established PSEA focal point, who is assisted by the HACT focal point and a   c hild  p rotection   o fficer. As of January 2025, all staff had completed the mandatory AGORA PSEA  training. In 2024, the   A CO hosted a PSEA specialist from the   Eur ope and Central Asia  R egional   O ffice   who   facilitated   three   PSEA   specific   trainings   and   made   several  recommendations with regards to the quality of systems to prevent and respond to SEA.  While not all recommendations were addressed, the   A CO   instituted   mitigation measures  for some recommendations such as adoption of the   United Nations Country Team   PSEA  Action Plan as a guiding document for PSEA implementation, in place of the   CO   specific plan.  The audit team assessed whether controls were adequately designed and operating  effectively to mitigate the risk of SEA, and that the mitigating actions were implemented as  planned.   While   audit   noted   the   above   positive   practices   at   the   ACO ,   the   following  observations present opportunities for improvement :  PSEA coverage in programmatic visits : The   UNICEF procedure on monitoring highlights  adherence to safeguarding including PSEA policies and systems as part of the scope of  programme   implementation   monitoring .   Additional   guidance   is   provided   in   the  considerations for monitoring requirements in the UNICEF programme implementation  handbook   2023 ,   which   requires   that   all   programmatic   assurance   activities   include  monitoring on SEA, through inclusion of at least three SEA - related questions. The handbook  further emphasizes that regardless of the PSEA assessment capacity rating, programmatic  visits include beneficiary - lev el monitoring with at least one specific SEA question.  Audit sampled 12 of the   49   programmatic visit reports completed and uploaded to eTools  and noted that the templates used during the visits did not include coverage of PSEA. While  the   ACO   indicated that PSEA considerations are integrated into programmatic monitoring,  these aspects were not documented in the   monitoring visit reports.  Root   c ause(s):   The   ACO   had not updated the programmatic visit template to include the  monitoring of PSEA and was in transition to the use of the e - Tools F MM . As a result, there  was no documented evidence of PSEA monitoring. Audit noted that the   ACO   adopted the  use of the FMM in 2025, which presents an opportunity to strengthen the documentation  of PSEA aspects during programmatic visits.  PSEA risk assessment : UNICEF Guidance on 2024 Risk Assessment issued by the   c hief   r isk  o fficer highlighted the mandatory risk areas and risk categories for   CO   assessment,

1 2  including SEA/SH risks under   m isconduct,   w rongful and   n egligent   beh avio u r   t oward   o thers.  The   ACO ’s   a nnual   r isk   a ssessment (ARA) for 2024 did not include SEA and   S H specific risks,  contrary to this guidance. Audit reviewed the June 2024 risk assessment performed by the  A CO and noted that child protection risks   had been assessed, but these did   not   include  SEA/SH.   In addition, the final ARA for the year signed off in December 2024 neither included  SEA/SH risks, nor the earlier assessed child protection risks.  Root   c ause(s):   The   ACO   indicated that the SEA/SH risks had been assessed as low, hence  their removal from the ARA. As a result, there was no documentation relating to present   or  potential SEA/SH threats,   or   targeted mitigation strategies to reduce the impact of threats,  should they materialize. The presence of refugees in   Albania   implies that the risk of SEA/SH  exists and may materiali z e. Documentation of the risk assessment   process confirms the  conclusion of the assessment and   ensures that lessons learned from past experiences   and  good   practices   are   adopted   for   future   strategies,   thereby   fostering   continuous  improvement.   ACO   agreed to include SEA/SH in the 2025   ARA .  AGRE ED ACTION S  The   ACO   will :  Update programmatic visit template to include SEA/SH - related questions as per   UNICEF  monitoring procedures :  i.   Conduct quality assurance checks on monitoring visits to ensure SEA/SH - related  questions are being applied consistently ;  ii.   Provide ongoing technical support and clarification to programme teams on how  to document SEA/SH considerations during visits ;  iii.   Send   a follow - up letter to March CSO training participants with PSEA  commitment reminder .  Include SEA/SH risks as a separate category in the 2025   ARA:  iv.   Review and update the 2025   CO   ARA   template to include SEA/SH as a standalone  risk category ;  v.   Coordinate with the   r isk   m anagement   te am and PSEA   f ocal   p oint to define  SEA/SH risk indicators and mitigation strategies ;  vi.   Present the revised risk categories for discussion and validation in relevant risk  management meeting/s ; and  vii.   Ensure the updated risk assessment is integrated into   the   A CO   risk matrix and  endorsed by senior management.  Staff   r esponsible:   PSEA   f ocal   p oint  Implementation   d ate:   31 July 2025

13  3.   Service contract management   Medium  The   ACO   did not maintain an updated procurement plan to facilitate effective monitoring,  tracking   and   transparency of service contracts throughout the year.   Declarations of  impartiality to confirm absence of conflict of interest were not consistently obtained dur ing  technical evaluation s.  The   ACO   initiated and completed a total of 34 service contracts during the year amounting  to a total of US$1.63 million. Three contracts amounting to US$637,360 were subjected to  the   Contract   R eview   C ommittee   (CRC)   review,   having   exceeded   the   threshold   of  US$100,000.   The audit   assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of  the   ACO ’s processes and controls over planning, selection, award and management of  service contracts to ensure value for money in the application of resources to achieve  progr am me   objectives.   The   following observations   were noted :  Insufficient procurement planning:   Supply planning activities as well as procurement  strategies and planning are guided by the UNICEF Procedure on Supply Strategy and  Planning. It is highlighted in the procedure that regular reviews and updates of the supply  plan are critical to ensure dema nd changes are well captured.   At country level ,   ACO  s tandard   o perating   p rocedures for   i nstitutional   c ontractors ,   state that the   p rocurement  p lan should be prepared by   the   end of February and updated quarterly by the programme  team to ensure that any new requirement is included. Timely procurement planning  coupled with frequent update and monitoring of plans facilitates effective budget tracking  and fosters efficiency and tr ansparency in the procurement process. Of the 15 contracts  sampled by audit, 10 were not included in the   ACO ’s   2024 procurement plan.  Root   c ause(s):   From   discussions   with   the   ACO ,   it   received   ad   hoc   requests   from  stakeholders such as the government an d endeavo u red   to adjust and be flexible to the most  emerging needs   which entailed   extra efforts and time by the team to update planning  needs . Failure to include all relevant procurements within the procurement plan exposes  the   ACO   to risks that programme activities and funds are not properly monitored and that  programme results may not be achieved as planned.  CRC review:   Every UNICEF office is required to establish a CRC ,   an advisory body which  provides an independent, unbiased review of the procurement of goods and services  exceeding predetermined financial limits .   Audit found that in   2 out   of 15 samples, the CRC

14  chair   conducted ver ification of   scores in the   evaluation and   signed off to certify the accuracy  of the   evaluation   scores   during the procurement process .   The   A CO clarified that t his sign -  off was   merely a certification of the accuracy of formulas, figures and totals in the  evaluations and did not construe any judgment or recommendation related to the cost or  the type of services or activities offered by the entities under evaluation .   As the   ACO   has  taken   the needed   action and transferred t h is   responsibility to another staff member   who is  not a   member of the CRC,   no recommendat ion will be   made .   This will help keep the roles  distinct and ensure complete integrity and   independence of the CRC process.  Absence   of   declarations   of   impartiality :   In   line   with   the   UNICEF   Procedure   on  Management and Evaluation of Offers, all members of the technical evaluation team and  any observers should confirm that they have no conflict of interest in the procurement and  will maintain confidentiality before com mencing the evaluation by signing the   d eclaration  of   i mpartiality and   c onfidentiality.   The   ACO   did not obtain signed   d eclarations of   i mpartiality  and   c onfidentiality from the technical evaluation teams for   3   out of 15   procurements  reviewed by audit.  Root   c ause:   The   ACO   did not   consistently   adhere to   the   requirements of the   UNICEF  Procedure on Management and Evaluation of Offers   regarding declarations of impartiality .  This was possibly due to operational exigencies and/or competing work priorities.  AGRE ED ACTION S  The   ACO   will :  i.   Regularly monitor and u pdate the procurement plan to address ad hoc and  emerging needs ;  ii.   Communicat e by e mail or   memo the   process for monitoring and updating the  procurement plan ;  iii.   Share the   d eclarations of   i mpartiality and   c onfidentiality   in advance of any  evaluation process and   ensure that they are   duly signed .  Staff   r esponsible :   Operations   m anager/CRC   s ecretary/ f lagship leads/ p rocurement  a ssociate  Implementation   d ate:   31 July 2025

15  Definitions of   a udit   o bservation   r atings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a  rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to  the audited entity, area, activity or   process   or   to   UNICEF as a whole. Individual  observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns   a potential opportunity for improvement in  the assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low -  priority observations are reported to management during the audit  but are not included in the audit report. Action in response to the  observation   is desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to a weakness or deficiency in the assessed  governance, risk management or control processes that   require  resolution within a reasonable period to avoid adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management or control processes that  requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse  consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or pr ocess, or for  UNICEF as a whole.  Definitions of   o verall   a udit   c onclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion  for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management, and control  processes were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, and control  processes were generally adequate and functioning but needed  improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were  unlikely to   have a materially negative impact on   the  performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, or control  processes needed major improvement. The weaknesses or  deficiencies identified could   have a materially negative impact  on   the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or  process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control  processes were not adequately established or did not function  well. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could   have a  severely negative impact on   the performance of the audited  entity, area, activity or process.  APPENDIX

Published by UNICEF Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI)  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St, New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation  Report No.   2025/06  © United Nat ions Children’s Fund (UNICEF),   June 2025