# 2025 OIAI Audit Report on the Republic of Zambia Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2121/file/2025-zambia-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2121/file/2025-zambia-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

1  Report on the   Internal Audit of the  Republic of Zambia Country   Office  Ju ly   202 5  Report 202 5 / 10  UNICEF OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT AND INVESTIGATIONS

C ONTENTS  2  Executive   S ummary   ................................ ................................ ................................ ..   3  Overall   c onclusion  Summary of   o bservations and   a greed   a ctions  Context   ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................   6  Audit   O bjectives ,   S cope   and   A pproach   ................................ ................................ ...   8  Observations and   M anagement   A ction   P lan   ................................ .........................   9  1.   Risk   M anagement  2.   Work   planning  3.   Programme   M onitoring  4.   Management of   partners’ fiduciary risk  5.   Supply and   L ogistic s   M anagement  6.   Travel   M anagement  Appendix ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................   2 1  Definition s   of   a udit   o bservation   r atings  Definition s   of   o verall   a udit   c onclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Zambia  Country Office   (ZCO) , covering the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2024. The  audit was conducted from March 2025 to April 2025 in conformance with the Institute of  Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. The objective of the audit was to assess  the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management ,   and control  processes related to a selection of significant risk areas of the Z CO   including the specific  risks evaluated as set out in the   a udit   o bjective,   s cope and   a pproach section of this report.  The   Z C O   supports the   g overnment in the   implementation of the country programme  through partnerships at national   and subnational divisions and working in collaboration  with civil society organizations (CSOs). During the audit period,   the   Z CO   transferred  approximately US$46.9 million in cash and   US $23.8 million worth of programme supplies  to implementing partners. In planning for this audit, the audit team identified risks related  to the procurement of supplies and logistics, construction, cash transfers and assurance  to implementing partners, p rogramme planning ,   and monitoring. The audit sought to  determine whether and how the   ZCO   managed those risks.  Overall   C onclusion  Based on the audit work performed, OIAI  concluded that the assessed governance, risk  management, or control processes were  P artially   S atisfactory,   Improvement Needed  meaning that   governance, risk management,  and control processes were   generally  adequate and functioning but needed  improvement .  Summary of   O bservations   and   A greed   A ctions  The audit   team   made   several   observations   related to the management of the key risks  evaluated .   OIAI   noted :  •   Risk   m anagement:   The absence of a structured risk assessment process for high - risk  activities or areas susceptible to fraud hampered the ability   of the ZCO   to proactively  detect and respond to the risk of fraud, particularly in the operating context of fund  flow through devolved government structures with insufficient capacity for oversight  by line   m inistries.  •   Work   p lanning :   The absence of signed workplans as formal legal instruments with cash  transfer recipients or insufficient detailed workplans with government partners has  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory,   Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4  resulted in risks related to accountability, programme alignment, and financial  oversight.  •   Programme   m onit oring :   Gaps were noted in tracking supply distribution, aligning  monitoring with actual implementation, and there was no finalized structure reflecting  the office - wide monitoring framework, impeding on the effectiveness of oversight over  programme implementation   and reporting.  •   Management of partners’ fiduciary ris k:   There was insufficient ownership of  harmonized approach to cash transfers   ( HACT )   and assurance processes, and  recurrent   procedural errors indicated gaps in compliance with UNICEF’s HACT  framework. These issues weakened   the   oversight   of   assurance activities and hindered  effective partner monitoring.  •   Supply and   l ogistic s   m anagement:   Insufficient supply needs and logistics capacity  assessment led to delays, wastage and increased logistics costs, and missed  opportunities to support intended beneficiaries due to expired programme supplies.  •   Travel   m anagement :   There were lapses in travel management and insufficient  monitoring, which exposed the   ZCO   to financial and other operational risks.  The table below summarizes the actions management has agreed to take to address the  residual risks identified   and   OIAI’s assessment of   the ratings of those   risks   ( s ee th e  definition s   of   the   observation ratings   in the Appendix.)   For all other areas within the audit  scope, no deficiencies in the governance, risk management ,   or control processes  evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  The table   below   include s   a ll   high - risk/priority and all   medium risk /priority  recommendations.  RECOMMENDATIONS & AUDIT RATINGS  Risk   m anagement (Observation 1) :   Conduct a fraud risk assessment based on  global guidance or a locally developed methodology to identify and   address  control weaknesses   and c opy line ministries (and provinces) in disbursements to  devolved entities to enhance visibility and joint oversight.  Medium  Workplanning   (Observation   2 ) :   Develop a modified version of annual workplans  before signature at national level by line ministries. Clarify and strengthen  humanitarian - development nexus in workplans with   specifics on the   activities to  be accelerated as part of emergency response.  High  Programme   m onitoring   (Observation   3 ) :   Prepare   s upply   m onitoring   p lans based  on actual distributions   and   unused supplies , a dd   the   supply component in new   Medium

5  programme documents   and workplans , including supply distribution and delivery ,  and   finalize the development of the   monitoring framework.  Management of partners’ fiduciary risk   (Observation 4) :   Implement spot check  guidelines including for thresholds for financial findings requiring follow - up ,  a ssess capacity of staff and   assurance service providers in line with global  guidelines   and e nsure that staff involved in assurance activities complete the  required training modules.   Enhance supervisory review of assurance activities  including for programmatic visits , and u pdate local HACT   standard operating  procedure (SOP)   accordingly .  Medium  Supply and   l ogistic s   m anagement (Observation 5) :   C onduct formal capacity  assessment of partners before entering into storage or distribution agreements .   Medium  Travel   m anagement   (Observation   6 ) :   Establish   t ravel   m anagement SOP clarifying  accountabilities and responsibilities , c onduct monthly reconciliations of travel  agent accounts   and   quarterly review of travel expenses.  Medium  Management   is   responsible   for   establishing   and   maintaining   appropriate   governance,   risk  management ,   and control processes and implementing the actions   agreed following this audit . The  role of the   OIAI   is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk management ,  and control processes.  Eva Mavroeidi  Deputy Director, Internal Audit  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations

C ONTEXT  6  Zambia ,   a low middle - income country,   has the fourth highest income inequality rate in the  world, with a GINI coefficient of 57.1. Around 60   per   cent   of children live in families whose  income falls below the national poverty line and up to 80.5   per   cent   live   in rural areas . 1  Zambia's Human Development Index value for 2021   was   0.565, put ting   the country in the  medium human development category ,   position ed   at 154 out of 191 countries and  territories. Between 2024, economic growth weakened, with   g ross   d omestic   p roduct  growth declining due to an El Niño - induced drought and an energy crisis that affected  over 9.8 million people across 84 districts. Child well - being remained at risk, owing to  education quality, teenage pregnancies, and recurrent public health emerge ncies.  Re peated   cl imate shocks, including droughts and floods, alongside cholera and polio  outbreaks, deepened existing vulnerabilities particularly among the most at - risk  populations within an already fragile economic context.  The   ZCO   is based in   the capital city of   Lusaka and has four outposts   to support the  implementation of programmes at the district level , namely   Chipata,   Mansa, Solwezi   and  Mongu   -   implementing   the   n utrition programme   (due to close   in 2025 ).   At the time of the  audit visit in March 2025, the   ZCO   had a total of 123 approved posts, of which 118 are  based in the main office in Lusaka,   and   the remaining   five   posts allocated to the outposts.  Figure   1: Programme   expenditure   by outcome in US$ million   -   January 2023 to  December   2024  M ost   resources expended by the   ZCO   a re allocated to   h ealth,   n utrition, and   w ater,  s anitation and   h ygiene (WASH) programmes, which   a re included within the scope of the  audit   (  see Figure 1 ) .  1   UNICEF Zambia Programme Str a tegy Note   for the 2023 - 2027 GRZ - UNICEF Programme of Cooperation in  Zambia  5  7  9  17  27  28  CHILD PROTECTION  EDUCATION  SOCIAL POLICY AND INCLUSION  WASH  HEALTH AND HIV  NUTRITION  5   10   15   20   25   30  US $ Millions

7  Figure   2: Expenditure by cost category in US$ million   -   January 2023 to  December 2024  ZCO   expenditure   is illustrated   by key cost category for the audited period   above (  see  Figure 2) .   The most substantial expenditure category was cash transfers to implementing  partners, tota l ling   an   approximate US$47 million. As of   31   December   2024, an additional  US$12 million had been disbursed to partners but remained unliquidated. The audit scope  encompassed key controls related to these cash transfers, as well as those governing  expenditure on programme supplies, construction activities, an d service contracts.  3  17  13  25  22  Travel  Service Contracts  Programme Supplies  Cash Transfers to Government  Cash Transfers to CSO  5   10   15   20   25   30  US $ Millions

AUDIT OBJECTIVES ,   SCOPE   AND APPROACH  8  The objective of the audit was to assess the   adequacy and effectiveness of the  governance, risk management ,   and   control processes   related to   a selection of significant  risk areas of the   ZCO .  The audit scope   was determined during the audit planning process based on an  assessment of the   inherent 2   risks   of the   ZCO ,   and included the following areas:  Governance  •   Risk   M anagement  •   Wor kp lanning  Programme   M anagement  •   Programme   M onitoring  •   Management of partners’ fiduciary risk   -   HACT 3  Operations and   C ontrols  •   Supply and   L ogisti cs   M anagement  •   Travel   M anagement  The audit   fieldwork   was conducted from   March 2025   to   April 2025   in   conformance   with  the   Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global   Internal Audit Standards.   For the purpose of   audit  testing, the audit covered the period from   January 2023   to   December 2024 .   The audit  involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data  analytics, document review, tests of transactions,   on - site visits   and validation of  preliminary observations.  2   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including  internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact  would be should the adverse event   occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management  and control processes.  3   HACT   is   the   common   operational   framework   for   transferring   cash   to   government   and   civil   society  implementing partners for UNICEF, U nited Nations Development Programme , U nited Nations Population Fund  and other U nited Nations   adopting agencies as relevant.

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  9  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  Governance  1 . Risk   M anagement   Medium  The absence of a   structured risk   assessment process for high - risk activities or areas  susceptible to fraud hampered the   ability of the   ZCO   to proactively detect and respond to  the risk of fraud, particularly in the operating context of fund flow through devolved  government   structures   with   insufficient   capacity   for   oversight by line   m inis tries .  In accordance with   the   UNICEF Anti - Fraud Strategy ,   in   effect   during   the   audit   period ,  c ountry   o ffices are required to conduct an annual fraud risk assessment .   Accordingly,   an  updated UNICEF policy on   a nti - f raud and   c orruption ,   effective 11 April ,   2025   (post - audit  period ) ,   requires   h eads of   o ffice   to   incorporate fraud and corruption risk considerations  into the design of high - risk programmes and operations, implement context - specific  controls,   and   ensure continuous monitoring to detect red flags and address systemic  weaknesses, going forward.   The audit evaluated the adequacy of   the ZCO   approach to risk  management within a complex and dynamic operating environment and noted the  following opportunities to strengthen risk responsiveness.  Fraud risk indicators :   T he annual risk assessment process was conducted   and   included  fraud   related risk s ; however,   it lacked a detailed   targeted analysis of fraud schemes or  indicators specific   to key   operational   areas   such as partnerships, procurement,   cash  transfers   and travel   as   observed during the audit.  Root   c ause(s):   T he   ZCO   expressed the need for guidance   on   methodology for conducting  fraud risk assessments.  Risk associated with the   d evolved   c ash   t ransfer   a pproach:   Donor - imposed restrictions  on funding government entities resulted in fund flows through devolved structures.  However, discussions with implementing partners indicated a disconnect between the  need for centralized accountability and the limitations of ove rsight at decentralized level s ,  where   transparency   of disbursed and utilized   fund s   was   limited.  Root   c ause(s ):   Inadequate oversight and weak er   financial management capacities   of  devolved government entities resulted in increased fiduciary risk and contributed to the  modified audit opinion.

10  AGREED   ACTION S   1  ZCO   agrees to :  i.   Conduct a fraud risk assessment based on global guidance or a locally developed  methodology to identify and address control weaknesses .  ii.   Copy line ministries (and provinces) in   disbursements to devolved entities to  enhance visibility and joint oversigh t.  Staff   r esponsible:   Deputy   r epresentative   o perations,   f inance   o fficer  Implementation   d ate:   December 2025  2 . Work planning   High  The absence of signed workplans as formal legal instruments with cash transfer recipients  or insufficient detailed workplans with government partners   has resulted in risks related  to accountability, programme alignment, and financial oversight.  Absence of w orkplans with government   implementing partners :   All UNICEF offices are  responsible for developing, revising, and managing workplans and corresponding supply  plans to operationalize the   c ountry   p rogramme   d ocument and humanitarian response.  Requests for cash transfers, supplies, technical assistance, and travel are derived from the  activities outlined in the approved workplans.  Implementing partners (IPs) are defined as entities to which UNICEF has entrusted the  implementation of a programme specified in a signed partnership document, along with  the assumption of responsibility and accountability for the effective use of resource s and  the delivery of results.   Governments are categorized as one of the IPs partner types.   The  work plan is the overarching document for programme implementation with government  entities, including line ministries, municipalities and other public sector b odies. The  approved work plan is the legal instrument for transfer of resources from UNICEF to  government entities. UNICEF  During the audit period, the   ZCO transferred US$ 46.9   million to   implementing partners , of  which US$25 million ,   equivalent to   53   per   cen t,   was transferred to government partners.  The ZCO had   timely   signed workplans with   the   four key line ministries   (including the  National Food and Nutrition Co m mission) ,   who were   identified as primary partners for the  implementation of the   c ountry   p rogramme. While these workplans included the minimum  required elements   such as expected results, designated   implementing partners ,  implementation timeframe, and planned budget ,   they were not accompanied by  corresponding supply plans, and geolocation data.

11  The audit   also   noted that the ZCO had transferred funds to 14 3   government entities  beyond the four   mentioned   key line ministries   and national   commission   with which formal  workplans had been signed. Approximately US$17 million ,   representing 69 per   cent of the  total funds transferred to government   implementing partners,   had been disbursed   to   the  devolved   government entities in the absence of signed microplans.  Root   c ause(s):   The ZCO indicated that this approach was consistent with the ongoing  fiscal decentralization process in Zambia, which UNICEF actively supported   and   the  decision to allocate funds   at   subnational levels was driven by limited implementation  capacity at the national level ,   as   already   noted in the 2021 audit report, and by specific  donor - imposed restrictions.   During the audited period, the   electronic work   planning ( eWP )  module did not have all the n ecessary   features to   adjust the signed   workplans   and t he  progressive   adoption of the global tool   explains   some of   the identified   gaps.  The absence of signed workplans, and therefore of a legal instrument with   recipients of  cash transfers created the risk of insufficient assumption of accountability for the effective  use of resources and delivery of results by both the actual recipients and the  imple me nting partner   with the signed workplan ,   espe c ially given the   oversight   limitations  at decentralized levels .   Furthermore, without formal agreements, cash transfers, supplies,  and technical assistance may not be aligned with pre - established programme activities,  heightening the risk of poor implementation, inadequate monitoring, and weak financial  oversight.  Revised workplans for the humanitarian response:   In the case of a sudden - onset  emergency or a deteriorating humanitarian crisis, UNICEF offices revise existing  workplans.   During the audit period, t he ZCO   responded to   the humanitarian needs ,  consequence s   of the   recurrent climate - related   shocks ,   such as droughts and floods,   and  public health emergencies including cholera and polio outbreaks.   Following the regional  humanitarian action for children appeal   ( HAC )   and the Zambia   f lash appeal for cholera,  t he ZCO prepared   the   corresponding   emergency preparedness and response plans .  However,   there was no   evidence   whether   the response plans were   integrated into the  signed workplans to capture the interventions implemented with the   impl e menting  partners   as part of UNICEF humanitarian response and therefore unclear how the   country  office planned, implemented and monitored it.  AGREED ACTIONS   2  ZCO   agrees to :  i.   Develop a modified version of the annual workplans, by exporting from eWP and  manually adding in the details of districts and subnational divisions, before  signature at national level by line ministries .  ii.   Clarify and strengthen humanitarian - development nexus in workplans with added  clarity on activities to be accelerated as part of emergency response .

12  Staff   r esponsible:   Chief   of p lanning ,   m onitoring and   e valuation  Implementation   d ate:   March 2026  Programme   M anagement  3 .   Programme   M onitoring   Medium  G aps   were noted   in tracking supply distribution, aligning monitoring with actual  implementation, and   there was no   finalized   structure   reflecting the   office - wide monitoring  framework ,   impeding   the   effectiveness of oversight   over programme implementation   and  reporting .  P rogramme monitoring supports organizational learning, decision - making by programme  managers, and accountability to programme stakeholders. It encompasses both  programme results monitoring (assessing contributions to outputs and outcomes) and  programme implementation monitoring (tracking the delivery of key interventio ns,  workplan activities, and change strategies). Country   o ffices are expected to maintain   a  structured and coordinated office - wide monitoring and data system.  The ZCO conducted   regular   m id - year and annual programme review s and   in   late 2024   a  mid - cycle   reflection . It   developed   its internal   SOP   for   p rogramme   m onitoring ,   including  guidance on   s ituation monitoring,   programmatic monitoring through   corresponding  programmatic visits   triggered by the HACT   assurance   plan ,   a s well as   monitoring o f  suppl ies   distribution.  Monitoring of   p rogramme   r esults : Programme monitoring includes results monitoring,  i.e. contributions to   output s   and outcomes.   Although t he ZCO regularly monitors results  (i.e., annual and mid - year reviews) ,   the audit noted the following:  •   There was a misalignment   between the achievement of results as reported vis - à - vis the  funds utilized   and   the planned amounts . This might be indicative of insufficient  quantitative monitoring methods to validate the robustness of planning assumptions  or the effectiveness of change strategies.   While mindful of this shortcoming, the   ZCO  was   implementing a three - dimensional review of programmes ,   indicator status ,   and  utilization status   during annual and mid - year review meetings.  •   Conversely, results from   regular programming and humanitarian response efforts  were combined and reported together,   which might hinder the granular monitoring of  the level of achievement of the original targets as planned.  Enhanced   results monitoring and reporting   would increase   the   ability of the   ZCO to assess  whether the intended changes as described in the theory of change and the   r esults and

13  r esources   p lans were met, as well as to generate the needed evidence to adapt ZCO  programmes, when required, and maintain the trust of partners.  Suppl y e nd - u ser   m onitoring   (SEUM) : Complementary,   SEUM   verifies the effectiveness of  last mile distribution. As part of the implementation of various programmes, supplies  were procured, distributed and delivered to different partners in the implementation  areas. During the audit period, the ZCO procured appro ximately US$7.7 million worth of  supplies (comprising different typologies of supplies like   o ral   r ehydration   s alts , cholera  discharge kits, examination gloves, paracetamol and amoxicillin tablets,   ready - to - use  therapeutic food , bicycles, clothing, disinfectants/antiseptics, tents, hand pumps, etc.). To  monitor the effective distribution and use of the supplies procured for partners, the ZCO  developed a n   SOP   on   p rogramme   m onitoring and   end - user monitoring ( EUM )   covering  situation, programmatic visit and end - user monitoring and conducted regular  programmatic monitoring visits throughout the year, including monitoring o f   supplies. It  also followed up during the monthly   p rogramme - o peration   c oordination   meetings and  the   country management team meetings .  The SOP   on   p rogramme   m onitoring and EUM included   EUM ,   and   regular programmatic  monitoring visits conducted includ ing   the supply component . T he ZCO prepared an  annual EUM plan following the distribution of supplies as indicated by the   s upply section.  However, the audit noted:  •   The monitoring of supplies was mainly based on the ZCO   s upply   p lan ,   and the ZCO  EUM plan   which was based on deliveries directly to   implementing partners   and from  the warehouse . It was unclear how these were updated based on the actual  implementation (distribution) or how the plan was followed up, and therefore unclear  whether monitoring of supplies at the last mile was timely, sufficient and complete.  •   The audit review of monitoring reports that included supplies noted that, while the  quality of the reports was generally good, those supplies were not indicated in the  corresponding   programme documents   and   therefore   it was   unclear on what basis the  amount and type of supplies was monitored.  •   Some supplies were delivered directly to government partners for distribution   at   the  provincial and district level, but the workplans with government partners did not  include supplies plus   there   was no   evidence   about   whether the distribution details  from the government partner (main recipient) were timely and accurately shared with  the ZCO. Therefore, it was unclear whether adequate monitoring was performed and  assurance on supplies reaching the last mile obtained.  Root cause (s) :   The   ZCO   did   not   specify the supplies to be   transfer r ed   to implementing  partners in the corresponding programme documents   or workplans , and the   supplies  distribution data   in the system   lack ed   essential information   such as   actual locations ,  consignees, etc.

14  Incomplete and insufficient information on supplies distribution hampers the  effectiveness of   EUM ,   creat ed   the risk of supplies not reaching the intended beneficiaries  and of aid diversion.  Structured and coordinated office - wide monitoring system : The programme  monitoring matrix is a procedural option. It is a simple document, the cent re piece of  managing programme monitoring as it brings together all the things that need to be  monitored, indicating what, how, when, and by whom. The ZCO was in the process of  developing the monitoring framework, aimed at consolidating the monitoring by  prog rammatic level, the strategy and the corresponding tools to be utilized. This would  help the ZCO in streaml ining the monitoring activities of different   natures   and for  increased   efficiency .  Root cause(s) :   The programme monitoring matrix is an optional instrument for planning  monitoring activities.  AGREED ACTIONS   3  ZCO   agrees to :  i.   P repare   s upply   m onitoring   p lans based on actual distributions , including   reports  on unused supplies.  ii.   Add   supply   component s   in   new   programme   documents ,   including   supply  distribution and delivery .  iii.   A dd supply plans to workplans with   g overnment partners .  iv.   E stablish a monitoring framework with required details of what, how, when and  by whom .  Staff   r esponsible:   Supply   and l ogistics   m anager,   c hief   of p lanning ,   m onitoring and  e valuation and   implementing partnership management s pecialist  Implementation   d ate:   September 2025  4. Management of partners’ fiduciary risk   –   HACT   Medium  There was insufficient ownership of HACT and assurance processes, and   recurrent  procedural errors indicated gaps in compliance with   the   UNICEF HACT framework. Th is  weakened oversight   of   assurance activities and hindered effective partner monitoring.  Country   o ffices are expected to adhere to UNICEF policies and procedures governing cash  transfers to implementing partners, including careful review and prompt processing of  the   f unding   a uthorization and   c ertificate of   e xpenditure (FACE) forms, to ensure timely  disbursement of funds to partners for authorized programme activities. The   HACT  framework requires UNICEF country offices to conduct assurance activities such as

15  programme monitoring, spot checks and audits, to ensure proper use of cash transfers by  implementing partners. The HACT framework also requires timely, complete and accurate  follow - up of financial findings. Between 1 January 2023 and 31 December 2024, the   ZCO  transferred US$46.9 million in cash to 171 partners. This included 148 government  partners and 23   CSOs , which received US$22 million and US$24.9 million, respectively.  The audit team assessed the adequacy and effectiveness of controls over cash transfer  requests, processing, disbursements and liquidations to ensure that cash transfers are  released to partners for efficiently and timely implementation of activities and ar e  promptly accounted for. It also assessed the ZCO’s planning, execution, quality assurance  and follow - up of HACT assurance activities. The following observations were made:  Follow - up of action points and ineligible / unsupported expenditure:   The HACT  framework requires timely, complete and accurate follow - up of financial findings.  •   As of   31 December 2024, the ZCO had 15 overdue high - priority action points arising  from audits, spot checks, and programmatic visits. Additionally, none of the five  reviewed programmatic visit samples with reported high - priority recommendations  were documented in e Tools for follow - up, indicating gaps in tracking and  accountability.  •   Deficiencies were noted in the quantification, documentation, and follow - up of  ineligible and unsupported expenditure identified through seven spot checks and one  audit. For instance, one spot check incorrectly reported ineligible expenditures of  $102,982   in US dollars instead of Zambian Kwacha. Although th e ZCO   committed to a  follow - up spot check, it was not conducted, and insufficient documentation was used  for closure of the related action. In another review,   US $6,114 in ineligible expenditures  went unre corded, and at least three instances lacked assigned follow - up actions. These  issues raised concerns about whether the   ZCO   had full visibility of the total ineligible  and unsupported expenditure flagged through assurance activities. Additionally, while  an audit identified   US $435,970 in unsupported expenditure and follow - up was  undertaken, the evidence retained was   in sufficient to confirm resolution of   the total  amount.  Root   c ause(s):   The re was inadequate   financial enforcement   o f   defined thresholds   fo r   the  recovery of ineligible or unsupported expenditure.   The partner was not well versed with  require retaining supporting documents for direct payments.   There was poor   utilization   of  eTools for tracking and follow - up processes for ineligible and unsupported expenditure.  Criteria of allocation and capacity of UNICEF to conduct spot checks:   The audit team  was informed that spot checks perceived as complex are predominantly assigned to  UNICEF staff. While all spot checks assigned to third parties in 2023 were completed  except one pending as of   31   March   2025, there were notable delays in staff - assigned spot  checks. In nine cases, partners had been contacted, but the spot checks remained  incomplete. Additionally, three spot checks were still in draft status in e T ools, including  one overdue   for   more than seven months (issued in May 2024). Discussi ons with the   ZCO

16  revealed that some assurance activities had been carried out but   were not   recorded in  eTools.  Root   c ause(s):   The delayed completion and weak documentation culture of staff - led spot  checks was due to insufficient accountability for the process .  Cash transfers : The   ZCO   internal quality assurance process identified key control gaps,  including direct payments and cash reimbursements made without prior approval, use of  signatories not listed in the UNICEF - approved database, and inadequate or poor   quality  documentation such as unclear or incomplete UNICEF FACE   f orms and   i temized   c ost  e stimations (ICE).  An audit of the   ZCO’s   management of cash transfers revealed gaps in the completeness,  accuracy, and timeliness of FACE form processing. The review covered a sample of 12  direct cash transfers,   four   direct payments, and   four   cash reimbursements. Key findings  included:  •  Documentation   g aps :   A   sample of FACE forms were submitted without required  supporting documents, such as progress reports or activity justifications.  •  Process   g aps : In at least one case, the same FACE form was erroneously used to  process multiple transactions, violating standard procedures for traceability and  control.   This was updated during the audit.  •  Data quality issues : The master file containing   original FACE form signatories was  corrupted. The finance team was in the process of reconstructing a new, reliable  database at the time of the audit to address this.  Although the   ZCO   had initiated training clinics to educate staff on proper FACE form  documentation requirements, recurring issues identified through peer reviews and  internal quality assurance processes persist.  Root   c ause(s):   I nadequate   accountability   across teams involved in FACE form processing .  Completeness and timeliness of   a ssurance activities:   The audit noted significant delays  in the completion of minimum assurance activities. In 2023, none of the eight required  audits were completed within the year; all were finalized in 2024, resulting in non -  compliance with the minimum assurance requirements . Timeliness of assurance activities  remains a concern. For instance, among a sample of three spot checks conducted by a  third - party assurance provider, the time taken to finalize each ranged from 9 to 1 8  months. Similarly, spot checks conducted by staff also faced delays, ranging from   five  months to over a year.  Root cause   (s) :   D elays in recruitment of assurance service providers ,   insufficient internal  capacity   and   inadequate   task   prioritization .

17  AGREED ACTIONS   4  ZCO   agrees to :  i.   Implement the 2025 spot check guidelines including for thresholds for financial  findings requiring follow - up .  ii.   Assess capacity of staff and assurance service providers in line with global  guidelines .  iii.   Ensure that staff involved in assurance activities complete the required training  modules .  iv.   Enhance supervisory review of assurance activities including for programmatic  visits .  v.   Update local HACT SOP .  Staff   r esponsible:   I mplementing partnership management s pecialist  Implementation   d ate:   September 2025  Operations and   C ontrols  5 . Supply   and   L ogistic s   M anagement   Medium  Insufficient supply   needs and   logistics   capacity   assessment led to   wastage ,   increased  logistics   costs   and   missed   opportunities to support intended beneficiaries   due   to expired  programme supplies.  Between January 2023 and December 2024, the   ZCO   distributed supplies valued at  US $ 23.8 million,   including a one - off   US $13 million   personal protective equipment ( PPE )  donation   (coronavirus disease )   to   primarily   government consignees.   The   ZCO  implemented a supply and logistics   strategy, on   a ‘no regrets’ basis,   to facilitate scale up of  supply and logistics activities for the cholera and drought humanitarian response. This  distribution strategy leveraged Zambia's decentralized structure, where supplies were  consigned to government entities at national, provincial , district, municipality and town  council levels with support from   CSOs   supporting last - mile delivery .   In humanitarian  situations, procurement and logistics assessments must be completed within three  months of programme implementation to facilitate effecti ve and efficient delivery of  supplies.   The audit team assess ed   the adequacy and effectiveness of the mitigation of  risks associated with the use of consignees for the distribution of supplies   and   noted the  following:

18  In the second half of 2022,   the ZCO   received a donation of approximately eighty 40 - foot  containers of PPE from UNICEF Supply Division to support the   government partner .  However, due to an overestimation of PPE needs and limited storage capacity at the  partner's   warehouse, significant delays in offloading occurred.   As a result of the delays,  the   ZCO   incurred truck detention and container demurrage charges total l ing  approximately US $ 250,000, in addition to costs for renting supplementary storage. As of  March   2025, an outstanding   liability of approximately US $ 16,000 remained due to the  freight company.   In April 2025 , the audit observed that approximately 1,000 pallets of PPE  remained unused and had expired at the   partner’s   warehouse, representing loss of  resources and   a   missed opportunity to support intended beneficiaries.  Unused   s upplies and   l ogistic s c hallenges :   Although the programme documents signed  between the ZCO and its   CSO partners included a supply component, the corresponding  financial records lacked clarity on the quantity and value of supplies delivered from the  UNICEF warehouse or directly from vendors.   Discussions with one CSO partner revealed  that emergency response supplies distributed by   the   ZCO, such as   o ral   r ehydration   s alt  kits, multi - purpose soap, granulated chlorine, and hand sanitizer, remained   unused in the  CSO’s warehouse.   The supplies had been consigned   by   the Ministry of Health, rather than  directly   wit h   the CSO   that received the supplies , and   were   delivered without a clear  distribution plan. Additionally, the CSO partner noted that   the ZCO   had assumed the  organization had vehicles available for distribution, which was not the case. As a result,  the ZCO   had to intervene to facilitate transportation to the distribution cent re s. The  partner   highlighted the need for   timely   communication from vendors to allow for proper  logistical planning and allocation of storage space.   In a separate case, a partner  organi zation was tasked with distributing 19,200 WASH kits; however, 24,849   of these  were delivered to the district health facility. According to the CSO’s report, the storage  facilities at the site were inadequate, leading to damage to some kits.   L ogisti cs   challenges  in moving the supplies from the facility to the int   ended beneficiaries further disrupted the  distribution process.   An audit visit to a partner warehouse in Zambia revealed expired and  unused nutritional supplies, specifically F - 100 and F - 75   t herapeutic   m ilk (400g). According  to the partner, distribution of these items is cen trally coordinated, and the supplies   albeit  delivered   to the warehouse,   were not included in the distribution plan.   Although the ZCO  was aware of logistic   challenges affecting supply distribution, it did not conduct  assessments prior to dispatching supplies   despite having experienced recurring  emergencies over the p revious   two years.  Root cause(s) :   Insufficient needs   and capacity   assessment and   inadequate   monitoring of  supplies,   especially   nutritional supplies   during the emergency   response.

19  AGREED ACTION   5  ZCO   agrees to   c onduct formal capacity assessment of partners before entering into  storage or distribution agreements .  Staff   r esponsible:   I mplementing partnership management s pecialist  Implementation   d ate:   September 2025  6 .   Travel   M anagement   Medium  There were lapses   in travel management   and i nsufficient monitoring,   which   expose d   the  ZCO   to financial   and other operational risks .  The objective of   the   UNICEF travel policy is to provide clear guidelines for planning,  authorizing, and managing travel in a cost - effective, safe, and compliant manner. It  ensures that travel is for legitimate, work - related purposes   and aligns   with organizational  priorities .   The   ZCO   s pent a total of US$2.8 million on travel   between January   2023 and  December   2024. The audit reviewed measures put in place by the   country   office to   ensure  accountability ,   efficiency   and compliant travel management and noted the following:  The re was   insufficient   supporting   documentation such as flight bookings, admin istration  notes, and   approvals   attached to   t ravel   r equests prior to approval. A non - daily - subsistence  allowance t ravel   a uthorization (TA) valued at   US $5,328.41 was approved under an active  staff member’s profile to pay for airline tickets that were already issued but not linked to  the original TA. In another case, a TA was created under a n active   staff member to pay for  travel related to a staff member who had already separated from the   ZCO .   Insufficient  supporting documentation   pose d   a risk of double payment, particularly as the   airline  tickets were issued without a unique TA number for tracking and reconciliation.   The audit  also noted that the   ZCO   had three long - outstanding T A s   that were open for   between   five  months and 2.5 years ,   existing before the   implementation of the automatic TA closure  with   n o justification for the delays   in their closure ,   al though the   ZCO   cited a technical issue  in closing one of the TAs.  Effective travel management requires regular monitoring of travel expenditures through  dashboards to identify inefficiencies and irregularities. Quarterly reviews of travel data  should be conducted to detect anomalies   such as unusual travel frequency, escalating  costs, or inconsistent patterns   with targeted spot checks performed based on identified  trends. Discussions with the   ZCO   indicated that periodic travel spot checks were yet to be  established at the time of the audit . T he audit noted the following discrepancies based on  analysis of TA’s   -   e.g.,   a t least five TAs related to a   United Nations   V olunteer   staff member

20  traveling with a personal assistant were created under a single TA.   A s per the Travel of  Staff with Disabilities policy, separate TAs should have been issued to   reflect   each  travel l er’s   distinct entitlements and   simplify monitoring . Additionally, the audit noted that  in one TA reviewed, terminal entitlements were incorrectly quoted and paid in US   dollars  instead of the local currency. The audit also found that travel for implementing partner  staff, processed through the travel module, was not consistently s upported by required  documentation, including medical clearance, security clearance   and signed non - staff  liability waivers.  The ZCO did not conduct regular monthly reconciliations of payable accounts with invoices  from travel agents, as required. The audit team requested reconciliations for three active  travel agents for the period ending   28   February   2025, but these were not provided.   For  example,   the   audit identified a mis - posting of payable and receivable amounts in US  dollars   in   November 2024, despite similar amounts already being paid in local currency   to  the travel agent .   T he absence of periodic vendor reconciliations can lead to inaccuracies in  financial reporting and undetected overpayments.  Root cause (s) :   Non - compliance with   procedures and controls   in place to   strengthen travel  management  AGREED ACTIONS   6  Z CO   agrees to :  i.   Establish   a t ravel   m anagement SOP clarifying accountabilities and responsibilities .  ii.   Conduct monthly reconciliations of travel agent accounts .  iii.   Conduct quarterly review of travel expenses .  Staff   r esponsible:   Deputy   representative   o perations,   f inance and   a dministrati on   o fficer  Implementation   d ate:   October 2025

21  Definition s   of   A udit   O bservation   R atings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a  rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the  audited entity, area, activity or   process   or   to   UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are  rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a   potential opportunity for improvement in  the assessed governance, risk management ,   or control processes . Low -  priority observations   are reported to management during the audit but  are   not   included   in   the   audit   report.   Action   in   response   to   the  observation   is desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to   a   weakness or deficiency in the assessed  governance,   risk   management ,   or   control   processes   that   requires  resolution within a reasonable   period   to avoid adverse consequences  for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a   fundamental weakness or deficiency in the  assessed governance, risk management ,   or control processes   that  requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse  consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process ,   or for  UNICEF .  Definition s   of   O verall   A udit   C onclusions  The above   ratings of audit observations are then used to   support an overall audit conclusion  for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management ,   and   control  processes were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management ,   and   control  processes were   generally   adequate and functioning   but needed  improvement .   The w eaknesses or deficiencies identified   were  unlikely   to   have a   materially negative impact on   the  performance   of the audited entity, area, activity   or   process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  M ajor  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management ,   or control  processes   needed major improvement .   The w eaknesses or  deficiencies identified could   have a materially negative impact  on   the   performance of the   audited entity, area, activity or  process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control  processes   were not adequately established or   did not function  well .   The w eaknesses or deficiencies identified could   have a  severely negative impact on   the   performance of the   audited  entity, area, activity or process.  A PPENDIX

22  Published by UNICEF   Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI)  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St ,   New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation  Report No.   2025/10  © United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),   August 2025