# 2025 OIAI Audit Report on the Congo Country Office

**Source:** [https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2206/file/2025-congo-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf](https://www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation/media/2206/file/2025-congo-country-office-audit-report.pdf.pdf)

---

1  Report on the Internal Audit of the  Congo Country Office  DECEMBER 2025  Report 2025/25  UNICEF OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT AND INVESTIGATIONS

C ONTENTS  2  Executive Summary   ................................ ................................ ................................ ..   3  Overall Conclusion  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  Context ......................................................................................................................   8  Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach .................................................................   10  Observations and Management Action Plan .......................................................   11  1. Construction projects  2. Risk management  3. Resource mobilization  4. Cash transfer to implementing partners  5. Finance assurance activities  6. Programme management  7. Procurement of services  8. Warehouse management and distribution of supplies  Appendix   ..................................................................................................................   27  Definitions of Audit Observation Ratings  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  3  The Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI) conducted an audit of the Congo Country Office, covering the period from 1 January 2024 to 30 September 2025. The audit was conducted from 22 September to 3 October 2025 in conformance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. The objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management, and control processes related to a selection of significant risk areas of the Congo Country Office. The specific risks evaluated are set out in the Audit Objectives, Scope and Approach section of this report.  The Congo Country Office (hereafter, the Country Office) supports the Government of the Republic of Congo in the implementation of the country programme through partnerships with the Government at the central and subnational levels. During the audit period, UNICEF Congo transferred approximately US$4.8 million in cash and US$3.5 million worth of programme supplies to its implementing partners. Total resources transferred to implementing partners represented 44 per cent of total expenditure for the audit period. It also spent approximately US$2.8 million on construction projects. There were several risks related to construction projects, cash transfers to implementing partners, assurance activities, programme management, procurement of institutional service contracts and resource mobilization. The audit sought to determine whether and how the Country Office managed those risks.  Overall Conclusion  Based on the audit work performed, OIAI concluded that the assessed governance, risk management, or control processes were Partially Satisfactory, Improvement Needed, meaning they were generally adequate and functioning, but needed some improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Summary of Observations and Agreed Actions  OIAI noted the following practices that were innovative or exceeded expected levels of control:  •   Field monitoring : The audit team reviewed 25 sample programmatic visits and found that the corresponding reports were well-documented. They included key elements such as expected outcomes and outputs, the activities being implemented, and the  Satisfactory  Partially Satisfactory,  Improvement Needed  Partially Satisfactory, Major  Improvement Needed  Unsatisfactory

4  indicators and data to be monitored. The reports also covered the monitoring of implementing partners’ actions related to protection from sexual exploitation and abuse (PSEA) actions, as well as the status of supplies provided to those partners. Action points arising from the visits were recorded in eTools and actively monitored. In addition, the Country Office conducted three end-user monitoring exercises on supplies transferred to implementing partners during the audit period.  •   Monitoring   of   staff travel expenses : The Country Office has implemented several measures to monitor staff travel costs. For example, it maintains a monthly travel plan that is aligned with the field monitoring plan. This plan details the objective, duration and estimated cost of each trip and is regularly updated to reflect any changes in field visits.  •   Statutory   c ommittee s : Statutory committees have been established and are functioning effectively. Minutes of meetings for the Country Management Team, Partnership Review Committee and Programme Management Team were well- documented and included clear, actionable plans. The PSEA Task Force was found to be particularly effective, and PSEA awareness materials, such as posters, were prominently displayed in various sections of the Country Office and at the premises of two implementing partners visited by the audit team.  The audit team also made several   observations   related to the management of the key  risks evaluated. In particular, OIAI noted:  •   Construction projects : The Country Office did not make an update of needs identified in the proposal before implementing construction projects, leading to the construction of boreholes in some schools that already had functional ones. Additionally, construction projects were not planned and executed on time within the grant validity period, and the Country Office did not secure an in-house or external capacity to manage construction projects throughout the entire project implementation period. The auditors also noted gaps in the sourcing and contracting of construction vendors. These gaps, along with insufficient oversight and monitoring of these projects, expose UNICEF to reputational, financial and operational risks such as inadequate or incomplete construction and the risk of fraud.  •   Risk mana gement : While the Country Office established a risk management committee and conducted a fraud-inclusive risk assessment in 2025, the audit team noted gaps in identifying, assessing, mitigating and monitoring some programme- related risks. For example, the auditors found no evidence that the Country Office had assessed or mitigated risks related to programme supplies, grant management and programme evaluations. Not assessing and mitigating these risks could hinder programme implementation and the achievement of results. The Country Office’s controls, intended to mitigate fraud risks, such as the monitoring of fraud indicators and red flags, as well as conducting vendor background checks, were weak. As a result, a contract was awarded to a vendor who had submitted one of two identical bids.

5  •   Resource mobilization : The Country Office lacks adequate financial resources to sustain some of the programme outputs approved in the 2020–2026 Country Programme Document (CPD). This lack, combined with the limited capacity to mobilize resources from and leverage the private sector, has hindered the Country Office’s ability to achieve results defined in the CPD for these outputs.  •   Cash transfer to implementing partners : Despite high-risk ratings of implementing partners, outstanding cash transfers and ineligible expenses, the Country Office continued to rely on direct cash transfers (DCTs), increasing the risk of delayed liquidation and potential fund diversion. The auditors also noted weak oversight of cash transfer requests and liquidations. For example, discrepancies were found between some approved Funding Authorization and Certificate of Expenditure (FACE) forms and corresponding itemized cost estimates (ICE), and several cash liquidations lacked adequate supporting documentation in the Fiori system, 1   further elevating the risk of fraud. Additionally, cash transfers totalling US$263,000 remained outstanding for over six months, and delays in releasing funds to implementing partners increased the likelihood that programme activities would not be completed within the grant validity period.  •   Financial assurance activities : As of September 2025, ineligible expenses totalling US$569,412 million remained outstanding, with 71 per cent (US$403,146) overdue for more than two years. Additionally, not all internal control findings, including high- priority issues, were entered into eTools or adequately tracked. Combined with insufficient training provided to implementing partners, these gaps significantly increase the risk of errors and potential fraud.  •   Programme management : Although system strengthening was identified as a key programme output due to the low national capacities for programme implementation, the auditors found that approximately 75 per cent of the funds transferred to government implementing partners during the period of audit were used for allowances and operational expenses, costs that could be the responsibility of the government for more efficiency. This level of spending may be unsustainable and risks setting a precedent. Furthermore, the Country Office did not manage its grants effectively or transfer resources to implementing partners in a timely manner, resulting in several grants either expiring or approaching expiration with unutilized balances.  •   Procurement of services : The Country Office’s vendor selection and contract award processes lacked transparency, were insufficiently documented and failed to provide value for money for UNICEF. Combined with insufficient oversight of car rentals, these weaknesses significantly increased the risk of fraud. Additionally, grant management was ineffective, with approximately 24.5 per cent of purchase orders issued within 90 days of grant expiration, raising concerns about timely implementation of programme activities and fund utilization.  1   UNICEF country offices uses the Fiori system to manage the end-to-end processing of FACE forms.

6  •   Warehouse   m anagement   and distribution of supplies : The Country Office did not consistently update its inventory records or obtain acknowledgements on supplies transferred to implementing partners, which increases the risk of fraud and misappropriation of supplies.  The table below summarizes the actions management has agreed to take to address the residual risks identified and OIAI’s assessment of the ratings of those risks (see the  definitions of the observation ratings   in the Appendix). For all other areas within the audit  scope, no deficiencies in the governance, risk management or control processes evaluated were identified that warrant reporting.  AGREED ACTIONS & AUDIT RATINGS  Construction projects (Observation 1): The Congo Country Office has agreed to  strengthen construction planning and oversight by conducting a thorough site  assessment before initiating construction projects, issuing contracts in a timely  manner and ensuring that all construction projects are completed within the  designated grant validity periods; ensure timely correction of construction quality  issues identified during field visits and enforce the 10 per cent performance  guarantee and delay penalty clauses as stipulated in the contract; ensure that  adequate construction capacity and sourcing strategy are in place; and consult  with the West and Central Africa Regional Office and Supply Division before  initiating subsequent construction projects.  High  Risk management (Observation 2): The Congo Country Office has agreed to  strengthen its risk management process by ensuring that all significant  programme implementation risks are comprehensively identified, assessed,  mitigated and monitored; and enhance the monitoring of risk indicators by  regularly reviewing procurement and cash transfer transactions, and by  strengthening background checks for vendors.  Medium  Resource mobilization (Observation 3): The Congo Country Office has agreed to,  in collaboration with the West and Central Africa Regional Office, strengthen  resource mobilization initiatives by leveraging the private sector and increasing  advocacy and policy influence within the public and private sectors, as well as the  government.  Medium  Cash transfer to implementing partners (Observation 4): The Congo Country  Office has agreed to strengthen oversight of cash transfers to implementing  partners by contacting the Division of Finance and Administration Management to  revise the office release strategy, ensuring that FACE form requests and  liquidations are thoroughly reviewed, necessary revisions are communicated back  to the implementing partners and FACE liquidation documents are systematically  uploaded into the Fiori system; increase follow-up of cash transfers outstanding  with implementing partners; and monitor and ensure that cash is transferred and  accounted for by implementing partners within the grant periods agreed with  donors.  High

7  Financial assurance   activities   (Observation 5) :   The   Congo   Country Office   has  agreed to strengthen oversight of financial assurance activities by ensuring that all  recommendations are systematically reviewed, documented in eTools and  followed up in a timely manner, and that outstanding ineligible expenses are  reconciled and recovered to mitigate financial risk and reinforce accountability;  provide orientation to auditors before and during the conduct of spot checks and  audits; conduct a HACT training for all staff of implementing partners directly  involved in the management of UNICEF cash; and develop a mechanism to  document and track training provided.  Medium  Programme management (Observation 6): The Congo Country Office has  agreed to redefine its priorities as part of the preparation of the new Country  Programme Document, and ensure that financial resources are directed towards  sustainable capacity building and institutional reforms; and strengthen budget  planning and monitoring to ensure that resources are transferred to  implementing partners on time and funds used within the grant validity period.  Medium  Procurement of services (Observation 7): The Congo Country Office has agreed  to strengthen oversight of procurement and contract management by ensuring  that vendor selection and contract award processes are transparent, provide value  for money to UNICEF and are fully and properly documented; ensure that  purchase orders are raised and goods and services received within the grant  validity periods; and enhance controls over service delivery by maintaining internal  tracking documentation for all rented vehicles to improve accountability and  reduce the risk of misuse or overbilling.  High  Warehouse management (Observation 8): The Congo Country Office has agreed  to strengthen its warehouse and inventory management processes by ensuring  that all inventory movements are promptly recorded in the inventory system and  that supplies transferred to implementing partners are systematically  acknowledged upon receipt.  Medium  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining appropriate governance, risk management and control processes and implementing the actions agreed following this audit. The role of OIAI is to provide an independent assessment of those governance, risk management and control processes.  Eva Mavroeidi  Deputy Director, Internal Audit  Office of Internal Audit and Investigations

C ONTEXT  8  According to the 2023 General Population and Housing Census, the Republic of the Congo has a youthful population, with 47.2 per cent of its 6.1 million inhabitants under 18 and 31 per cent aged 10 to 24. Nearly 62 per cent of the population resides in the two largest cities, Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire. The country is classified as lower-middle-income, with heavy reliance on oil production, coupled with missed opportunities to diversify during past resource booms. Although the 2022–2026 National Development Plan focused on economic diversification and inclusive growth, the economic situation remains fragile. Public debt reached 94.7 per cent of gross domestic product in 2024, well above the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa threshold of 70 per cent, after peaking at 120 per cent in 2017.  Although access to quality services has improved and steps have been taken to strengthen economic governance, the social situation of the Congolese population remains fragile, with children and the most vulnerable groups still bearing the brunt. The Republic of the Congo continues to face interconnected economic and social challenges that call for sustained and timely policy action. Inflation reached 4.3 per cent in 2024, with soaring food and energy prices, a poverty rate of 47 per cent, and 40 per cent youth unemployment. Although income poverty fell slightly between 2020 and 2024 (from 50.7 per cent to 46.8 per cent), inequalities remain high.  According to a joint 2023 report by the World Bank and UNICEF, 60.5 per cent of children in the Congo (i.e., 1.75 million children) live in extreme poverty. Limited access to basic social services in education, health and protection accentuates their vulnerability. The Congo ranked 149th out of 193 on the Human Development Index in 2022, and 18th in sub-Saharan Africa. In terms of governance, the country ranked 45th out of 54 on the Mo Ibrahim 2023 Index, with low scores in the rule of law (34.1/100) and the fight against corruption (20.1/100), revealing an urgent need for institutional reform.  The Republic of the Congo is highly exposed to climate risks, ranking 48th out of 163 on UNICEF's Climate Risk Index for Children, but 174th out of 185 in resilience (GAIN1 index). The floods of 2023–2024 affected 9 of the 12 departments, with more than 120 schools destroyed or damaged, illustrating this vulnerability.  Context of key risk areas covered in the audit  The Country Office has a total workforce of 36 posts (10 international professionals, 11 national officers and 15 general service posts) as of 30 September 2025. The UNICEF Country Office operates from the national office located in Brazzaville and an outpost office in Pointe-Noire, which is mainly used for supplies and logistics purposes.  Country Programme Document (CPD): The CPD for 2020–2026 was initially approved for 2020–2024 and later extended to 2026 to align with the Republic of the Congo’s National Development Plan. It includes two programmatic areas (child survival and development;

9  education, protection and adolescent development) and a component on programme effectiveness. The original budget was US$8.4 million from regular resources and US$21.9 million from other resources. During the audit period, total CPD expenditure reached US$18.8 million. Figures 1 and 2 detail spending by outcome and category.  Figure 1: Programme spending by outcome in US$ million – January 2024 to September 2025  Figure 1 shows that most resources were spent on child survival and development, mainly related to vaccination and emergencies. The US$2.5 million expenditure on programme effectiveness includes communication, programme coordination and monitoring.  Figure 2: Expenditure by cost category in US$ million – January 2024 to September 2025  Figure 2 shows that during the audited period, the Country Office’s largest expenditure was cash transfers to implementing partners (US$4.8 million). The audit reviewed controls over this and other key cost categories, including programme supplies, construction, operating costs and service contracts. Staff costs were excluded due to centralized and standardized management, which was deemed to lower the risk of error and fraud.  2.5  4.7  11.6  Programme effectiveness  Education, protection and adolescent development  Child survival and development  Programme Spending by Outcome  US$ Millions  4.8  4.5  1.5  2.8  3.5  1.7  Cash transfers  Staff cost  Service contracts  Construction projects  Programme supplies  General operating cost  Programme Spending by Cat egory  US$ Millions

AUDIT OBJECTIVES ,   SCOPE   AND APPROACH  10  The objective of the audit was to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the governance, risk management and control processes over a selection of significant risk areas of the Congo Country Office.  The audit scope was determined during the audit planning process based on an  assessment of the inherent risks 2   of the Congo Country Office and included the following areas:  •   Governance and office structure  •   Risk management  •   Programme management  •   Construction projects  •   Cash transfers to implementing partners and HACT assurance  •   Distribution and monitoring of programme supplies  •   Evaluation  •   PSEA  •   Procurement of goods and services  •   Resource mobilization  •   Staff travel  The audit field work was conducted from 22 September to 3 October 2025 in conformance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Global Internal Audit Standards. For the purpose of audit testing, the audit covered the period from 1 January 2024 to 30 September 2025. The audit involved a combination of methods, tools and techniques, including interviews, data analytics, document review, tests of transactions, evaluations and validation of preliminary observations.  2   Inherent risk refers to the potential adverse event that could occur if management takes no actions, including internal control activities. The higher the likelihood of the event occurring and the more serious the impact would be should the adverse event occur, the stronger the need for adequate and effective risk management and control processes .

OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN  11  The key areas where actions are needed are summarized below.  1. Construction projects   High The Country Office did not make an update of needs identified in the proposal before implementing construction projects, leading to the construction of boreholes in some schools that already had functional ones. Additionally, construction projects were not planned and executed on time within the grant validity period, and the Country Office did not secure an in-house or external capacity to manage construction projects throughout the entire project implementation period. The auditors also noted gaps in the sourcing and contracting of construction vendors. These gaps, along with insufficient oversight and monitoring of these projects, expose UNICEF to reputational, financial and operational risks such as inadequate or incomplete construction and the risk of fraud.  During the period under audit, the Country Office spent US$2.8 million on the direct construction of schools, boreholes and latrines by service vendors. The audit team assessed the operating effectiveness of controls related to planning, vendor selection, execution and monitoring of construction projects. The following were noted:  Needs assessment and planning of construction projects: The UNICEF Procedure on Construction Projects requires country offices to conduct a needs assessment and clearly establish programme goals, including the timing of the projects in coordination with the host government, before initiating any construction projects. The Country Office did not make an update of needs identified in the proposal before initiating the construction of 25 schools, boreholes and latrines, leading to the construction of boreholes in some schools that already had functional ones. In another case, the Country Office planned to renovate latrines that had just been constructed by another organization and were awaiting handover. This resulted in some grants not being used effectively. For example, auditors found three schools with existing functional boreholes where new ones had been built by UNICEF.  The audit team further noted that construction projects were not planned and executed in a timely manner within the grant validity period. For example, contracts for the construction of 25 schools, boreholes and latrines were signed more than two years after the grant was received. At the time of the audit fieldwork, the grant had already expired, yet the construction had not been finalized.  In-house construction capacity: UNICEF Construction Procedures requires country offices to maintain a minimum in-house construction capacity and engage a qualified third-party engineering firm before initiating construction projects. Despite managing construction activities valued at US$2.8 million, the Country Office lacked in-house construction expertise throughout the project implementation period. Although the Country Office had an in-

12  house construction consultant and contracted the services of an engineering firm, the audit team identified multiple issues relating to construction projects, particularly in budget estimation and the monitoring of construction projects. At the time of the audit fieldwork, construction oversight was being carried out by a water, sanitation and hygiene specialist who did not have an engineering background. The Country Office explained that the in- house construction engineer departed in February 2025 due to funding constraints. To bridge the gap, they received six weeks of support from the Democratic Republic of Congo Country Office.  Sourcing and award of construction contracts: UNICEF procurement and construction procedures require country offices to clearly define the terms of reference for construction projects, solicit bids strategically, and evaluate vendors transparently and efficiently. The audit team assessed whether adequate controls were in place during the contract award process – specifically, whether measures existed to mitigate fraud risks and ensure that selected vendors had the technical capacity to implement the projects.  The audit team noted the following observations:  -   Although the Country Office noted a limited pool of construction vendors in the country, vendor solicitation was restricted to local firms. As a result, only three vendors passed the technical evaluation, and the Supply Evaluation Unit subsequently rejected two due to insufficient financial capacity. Additionally, the terms of reference for the construction projects were not adequately developed. For example, despite the limited availability of qualified construction vendors, the construction of 25 classrooms and latrines across nine localities was bundled into two large lots. Although technical evaluators had noted that no single contractor had the capacity to manage both lots, the two lots were awarded to one vendor who was unable to complete the full scope of work and subcontracted part of the project, contrary to the terms of the signed contract. The Country Office explained that this was due to the limited number of qualified vendors. However, the Country Office did not re-advertise the tender as required by the UNICEF Procedure on Sourcing and Solicitation.  -   There were inconsistencies in the bills of quantities for constructing classrooms within the same regions. For example, the bills of quantities for building classrooms, including the mobilization and demobilization cost, at two different schools, less than 2 kilometres apart in the Ewo region, differed by 26 per cent. The audit team did not receive any explanation for this discrepancy. Additionally, the financial offers submitted by contractors significantly exceeded the Country Office’s construction budgets, leading to multiple negotiations and a subsequent reduction of water, sanitation and hygiene facilities from six to five at one school.  Execution and monitoring of construction projects: UNICEF Guidance on Construction Projects mandates that the project manager or contracted engineer regularly supervise

13  construction activities. This includes monitoring the quality of materials and equipment to ensure contractors complete projects according to contract specifications, with high quality and adherence to environmental standards. The following observations were noted:  -   The auditors noted gaps in the supervisory role of the engineering firm. For instance, field visit reports from UNICEF staff and a government control mission highlighted multiple construction quality issues, many of which were confirmed by the audit team during site visits. However, most of these quality issues were not raised in the progress reports submitted by the engineering firm.  -   The construction contracts required that technical inspections and temporary reception of construction projects be conducted in the presence of key stakeholders, including UNICEF, contractors and community representatives and/or the host government. However, the audit team noted that the temporary reception was carried out without the presence of UNICEF representatives. Although the projects were temporarily accepted, multiple quality issues remained unresolved at the time of the audit field visits. For example, the auditors noted during field visits four boreholes that were not functional and were informed by a local administrator of another borehole in a school with odour, yet these projects were temporarily received. The Country Office explained that this was due to the unavailability of UNICEF staff. The Country Office also informed the auditors that the quality issues identified will be resolved before the final reception of these projects.  The above gaps raised concerns about the Country Office’s capacity to accurately estimate construction costs, source and select contractors and monitor construction projects, yet the auditors did not receive any evidence that the country office sought technical advice from the West and Central Africa Regional Office and Supply Division.  Root cause(s): The audit team attributed the above gaps to: i) management’s failure to adequately plan and oversee construction projects and ii) lack of in-house construction capacity or an external engineering firm to monitor construction projects.  AGREED ACTIONS 1  The Congo Country Office has agreed to:  i.   Strengthen construction planning and oversight by conducting a thorough  site assessment before initiating construction projects, issuing contracts in a  timely manner, and ensuring that all construction projects are completed  within the designated grant validity periods.

14  ii.   Ensure timely correction of construction quality issues identified during field  visits and enforce the 10 per cent performance guarantee and delay penalty  clauses as stipulated in the contract.  iii.   Ensure that adequate construction capacity and sourcing strategy are in place  and consult with the West and Central Africa Regional Office and Supply  Division before initiating subsequent construction projects.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representative operations, deputy representative  programmes, chief of programme sections.  Implementation Date: 31 August 2026  2. Risk management   Medium While the Country Office established a risk management committee and conducted a fraud-inclusive risk assessment in 2025, the audit team noted gaps in identifying, assessing, mitigating and monitoring some programme-related risks. For example, the auditors found no evidence that the Country Office had assessed or mitigated risks related to programme supplies, grant management and programme evaluations. Not assessing and mitigating these risks could hinder programme implementation and the achievement of results. The Country Office’s controls, intended to mitigate fraud risks, such as the monitoring of fraud indicators and red flags, as well as conducting vendor background checks, were weak. As a result, a contract was awarded to a vendor who had submitted one of two identical bids.  UNICEF’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework requires country offices to identify, assess, document and monitor all significant risks, including programmatic risk and the risk of fraud. The audit team evaluated the adequacy of the Country Office’s risk management to determine its effectiveness. Particular attention was paid to fraud risk management activities and programme-related risks, including risk assessment and monitoring, staff and stakeholder communication and training, and establishing and applying controls to identify, assess and monitor fraud red flags. The audit team noted the following:  Risk assessment and monitoring: The Country Office established a risk management committee to coordinate the identification and assessment of risk within the office, including fraud-related risks. The Country Office conducted a risk assessment, including fraud risk, in 2025. Several risks were identified with corresponding mitigating measures, and responsible parties were assigned. The risk assessment was revised in mid-2025 following the global funding crisis and the organizational restructuring. The audit noted that the Country Office systematically adjusted implementing partners’ risk ratings based on assurance activity results. In addition, anti-fraud awareness posters were prominently displayed throughout the office and in two implementing partner locations visited by the audit team.

15  The 2025 risk assessment, however, did not include some of the risks related to programme implementation, and the auditors did not receive any evidence that these risks had been assessed, mitigated and monitored. For example, the auditors found no evidence that the Country Office had assessed or mitigated risks related to programme supplies, despite 46 per cent (US$1.6 million) of supplies being transferred directly from vendors to implementing partners. Furthermore, there was no evidence of risk assessment or mitigation efforts concerning the management of grants and evaluations, even though several grants were expiring with unused balances and multiple delays were observed in completing approved planned evaluations. While the Country Office had assessed construction-related risks at the contract award stage, some of the mitigation measures were not aligned with the identified risks. For example, the mitigation measure for addressing vendors’ lack of liquidity was the waiver of the 10 per cent retention guarantee, an approach that may not have effectively mitigated the risk. At the time of the audit fieldwork, several construction-related risk mitigation actions were still in progress.  Furthermore, enforcement of contractual guarantees was inadequate. Although a letter was sent to the construction vendor in January 2025 informing that penalties would be applied if the construction projects were delayed, no penalties had been applied at the time of the audit fieldwork despite delays in completing these projects. Moreover, the performance bond, which expired in August 2025, had not been renewed at the time of the audit fieldwork. The Country Office explained that this gap was due to the absence of a deputy representative for programmes at the time of the initial risk assessment and its subsequent revision in mid-2025.  Not identifying, assessing and mitigating risks related to programme activities can hinder the implementation of activities and the achievement of results.  Monitoring of red flags: To effectively manage fraud risks, UNICEF’s Policy on Anti-Fraud and Corruption requires country offices to establish regular monitoring activities, including due diligence, transactional monitoring and assurance processes. The auditors noted that although implementing partners’ risk ratings were systematically adjusted with results from assurance activities, the Country Office did not perform transactional-level monitoring controls and did not conduct background checks for vendors before onboarding them. This resulted in two different vendors submitting identical bids, one of whom was awarded a contract.  Root cause(s): The auditors attributed the above gaps to weak linkage between project planning/execution and the risk management committee.

16  AGREED ACTIONS 2  The Congo Country Office has agreed to:  i)   Strengthen its risk management process by ensuring that all significant  programme implementation risks are comprehensively identified, assessed,  mitigated and monitored.  ii)   Enhance the monitoring of risk indicators by regularly reviewing procurement  and cash transfer transactions, and by strengthening background checks for  vendors.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representative operations, deputy representative  programmes  Implementation Date: 30 June 2026  3. Resource mobilization   Medium The Country Office lacks adequate financial resources to sustain some of the programme outputs approved in the 2020–2026 Country Programme Document (CPD). This lack, combined with the limited capacity to mobilize resources from and leverage the private sector, has hindered the Country Office’s ability to achieve results defined in the CPD for these outputs.  According to the 2020–2024 CPD and the resource mobilization strategy, the Country Office was to mobilize US$21.9 million from public and private sector donors, as well as leverage stakeholders from the public and private sectors to maximize available financial and human resources for the realization of children’s rights and the goals of UNICEF’s Strategic Plan and the CPD. The audit team assessed the effectiveness of the resource mobilization and noted the following:  •   Funding   g ap : The Country Programme Document is currently in its sixth year of implementation, following a two-year extension. However, the auditors noted several programme outputs that are significantly underfunded. For example, as of 30 September 2025, funding gaps were recorded at 78 per cent for adolescent development and participation, 62 per cent for access to child protection services, and 68 per cent for early childhood development. The Country Office also lacks sufficient resources in its funding pipeline to sustain these CPD activities or plan for future programming. The Country Office informed the auditors that it is actively engaging with new donors and has submitted project proposals to address the emergency and other funding gaps resulting from the withdrawal of a key donor.  •   Private   s ector development and fundraising : The private sector plays a crucial role in the ability of UNICEF to deliver results for children, especially in lower- middle-income country offices like the Congo, with very low funding appetite from

17  public sector donors. The sector, if thoroughly developed and nurtured, can provide financial resources to support UNICEF’s mandate as well as provide innovative approaches and market solutions to programmatic interventions. The audit team found that despite a resource mobilization strategy, private sector involvement remains underdeveloped due to limited staff capacity. Although some potential private donors were identified and approached at the beginning of the country programme cycle, the analysis was incomplete and lacked a clear engagement plan. Partnerships with the private sector, particularly around corporate social responsibility activities related to children’s rights, were also minimal.  Root cause(s): The Country Office attributed the partial implementation of its resource mobilization strategy to limited staff capacity as the consultant in charge of resource mobilization left in April 2022 and was never replaced. Additionally, prolonged vacancies in the deputy representative programme role (eight months in 2023 and nine months in 2024–2025) weighed negatively on the overall resource mobilization efforts. However, the May 2025 programme budget review endorsed the recruitment of a partnership officer, which was ongoing during the audit fieldwork.  AGREED ACTION 3  The Congo Country Office has agreed to, in collaboration with the West and Central  Africa Regional Office, strengthen resource mobilization initiatives by leveraging the  private sector and increasing advocacy and policy influence within the public and private  sectors, as well as the government.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representative programmes, communication and  partnership specialist  Implementation Date: December 2026  4. Cash transfers to implementing partners   High Despite   high-risk   ratings   of   implementing   partners,   outstanding   cash   transfers   and ineligible expenses, the Country Office continued to rely on direct cash transfers (DCTs), increasing the risk of delayed liquidation and potential fund diversion. The auditors also noted weak oversight of cash transfer requests and liquidations. For example, discrepancies were found between some approved Funding Authorization and Certificate of Expenditure (FACE) forms and corresponding itemized cost estimates (ICE), and several cash liquidations lacked adequate supporting documentation in the Fiori system, further elevating the risk of fraud. Additionally, cash transfers totalling US$263,000 remained outstanding for over six months, and delays in releasing funds to implementing partners increased the likelihood that programme activities would not be completed within the grant validity period.

18  During the audit period, the Country Office transferred a total of US$4.8 million to implementing partners. Of this amount, 96.6 per cent (US$4.6 million) was disbursed through DCTs, while 3.3 per cent (US$0.2 million) was transferred as direct payments and reimbursement. The audit team assessed the effectiveness of controls over cash transfers and financial assurance processes related to implementing partners and noted the following:  Cash transfer modality: According to UNICEF procedures, for implementing partners assessed as significant or high risk, country offices must use direct payment or reimbursement cash transfer modalities, or a blend of reimbursements, direct payment, and DCTs, for large purchases of goods or services. The audit team noted that the Country Office continued to use DCTs for disbursing funds to implementing partners, despite 82 per cent of them being rated as high or significant risk and having outstanding ineligible expenses and unsettled transfers. For example, between January 2024 and September 2025, 96 per cent (US$4.6 million) of the total cash transferred used the DCT modality. Of this, US$3.2 million was transferred to significant- and high-risk partners, having outstanding ineligible expenses of US$525,468. In an effort to reduce DCT usage, the Country Office signed a service agreement with a financial service provider in June 2025 to handle direct payments for training, daily subsistence allowance (DSA) and workshops. The effectiveness of this new approach could not be assessed, however, as it was still in the pilot phase at the time of the audit field work.  Processing of Funding Authorization and Certificate Expenditure forms: The UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook mandates programme focal staff to review FACE forms submitted by implementing partners to ensure completeness of the FACE forms, as well as appropriateness of expenditure and consistency with approved work plans or programme documents. The auditors reviewed 25 FACE forms from a total of 212 processed by the office during the audited period. The following observations were noted:  -   The audit team identified inadequate oversight by programme officers in reviewing FACE forms submitted by implementing partners. In three instances, the approved amounts on FACE forms did not align with the corresponding ICEs, and the ICEs were not updated accordingly. The audit also found examples of potentially inflated or unclear budget items. In one instance, training participants received both DSA and meals, indicating possible cost duplication. Additionally, several ICE budget lines were overly broad and lacked detailed cost breakdowns. For example, one training budget included in a FACE form did not itemize expenses such as DSA, venue rental, transportation or meals. Similarly, a monthly supervision fee was presented as a lump sum without specifying components like salaries, vehicle rental or DSA. These omissions increase the risk that activity budgets may be unrealistic, potentially resulting in misuse or fraud.

19  -   The audit team noted that the deputy representative programmes was not included in the FACE form approval workflow, despite 87 per cent of FACE forms (184 out of 212) being processed at a face value below US$50,000. The Country Office release strategy defined only two approval levels: below US$50,000 (under the authority of section chiefs) and above US$50,000 (under the authority of the country representative). As a result, many FACE forms were processed and paid without the deputy representative's review. In some cases, FACE forms were sent directly to the representative without the deputy representative programmes’ knowledge. This oversight gap increases the risk of misuse and fraud.  -   In all 21 liquidation FACE forms reviewed, the auditors found that the amounts liquidated matched exactly those stated on the corresponding FACE request forms. This indicates that all funds received were spent as planned. However, some expenditures were related to rehabilitation work and media expenses, areas where actual costs are likely to vary from initial budgets and estimates. The audit team did not find any evidence that programme officers raised questions regarding these specific liquidations. There is a risk that some of these budgets might be overstated.  -   The audit team noted that multiple cash liquidations by implementing partners lack sufficient documentation in the Fiori system. Although the programme sections had these documents stored on their local machines and in the Country Office archive, all supporting documentation must be maintained within the Fiori system to facilitate spot checks and other oversight reviews as required by the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook.  Cash transfers towards grant expiration: The audit team noted that 18 per cent of the DCTs made to implementing partners (US$813,168) were made less than 90 days before grant expiration, raising the risk that programme activities would not be implemented before grants expired.  Outstanding cash transfers: As of September 30, US$263,000 in cash transfers had been outstanding for over six months, including US$102,000 outstanding for more than nine months. The Country Office’s new leadership has initiated several actions to recover these amounts or have implementing partners report on the use of these funds. However, the amount remained outstanding as at the time of the audit fieldwork. Delays in liquidating cash transfers may indicate that programme activities have not been implemented as planned, and could increase the risk of fund misappropriation or diversion.  Root cause(s): The audit team attributed the gaps above to i) weak oversight and inadequate review of FACE forms, ii) insufficient monitoring and follow-up of cash transferred to implementing partners, iii) weak grant management and iv) inappropriate FACE form approval workflow.

20  AGREED ACTIONS 4  The Country Office has agreed to:  i.   Strengthen oversight of cash transfers to implementing partners by contacting  the Division of Finance and Administration Management to revise the office  release strategy, ensuring that FACE form requests and liquidations are  thoroughly reviewed, necessary revisions are communicated back to the  implementing partners and FACE liquidation supporting documents are  systematically uploaded into the Fiori system.  ii.   Increase follow-up of cash transfers outstanding with implementing partners.  iii.   Monitor and ensure that cash is transferred and accounted for by implementing  partners within the grant periods agreed with donors.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representative operations, deputy representative  programmes, HACT officer  Implementation Date: 31 March 2026  5. Financial assurance   Medium As of September 2025, ineligible expenses totalling US$569,412 million remained outstanding, with 71 per cent (US$403,146) overdue for more than two years. Additionally, not all internal control findings, including high-priority issues, were entered into eTools or adequately tracked. Combined with insufficient training provided to implementing partners, these gaps significantly increase the risk of errors and potential fraud.  During the period audited, the Country Office conducted 42 spot checks and two external audits, some of which resulted in significant financial findings. The audit team assessed the effectiveness of controls over cash transfers and financial assurance processes related to implementing partners and noted the following:  Conduct of spot checks: The UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook mandates country offices to carry out financial assurance activities, including spot checks and audits, to ensure implementing partners’ proper use of cash transfers. The handbook also requires the timely completion and accurate follow-up of financial findings from assurance activities. The audit team analysed financial assurance data, selected and tested 15 sample spot checks and two audits. The following were noted:  -   The auditors noted discrepancies between spot check completion dates recorded in eTools and those reflected in the inSight dashboard used for tracking spot check key performance indicators. For example, the report for one spot check was uploaded by the external auditor in eTools on June 8, 2024, while the corresponding date in inSight is July 17, 2025. As a result, several spot checks

21  reflected extended completion timelines in the dashboard compared to the actual  report upload dates. Upon discussions with the   Division of Data, Analytics, Planning  and Monitoring (DAPM) ,   it   was stated that the finalization date of an engagement in the system serves as a formal acknowledgement by UNICEF that the exercise is duly completed and, therefore, requires monitoring. This issue will be escalated to DAPM for assessment to determine if any changes to the current system are necessary.  -   The audit team found that while ineligible expenses were tracked in eTools, several internal control findings, including high-priority ones, were not documented in eTools, and there is no evidence that they were tracked. The HACT officer informed the auditors that findings were sometimes grouped under a single heading for easier tracking, which hindered the Country Office’s ability to follow up on these actions. The HACT officer also told the audit team that some findings were deemed non-actionable, and several ineligible expenses were under dispute by implementing partners. The audit team noted that this situation was partly due to the lack of orientation provided to the auditors before the spot checks were conducted, resulting in some of the findings being too generic.  Ineligible expenses: As of 30 September 2025, US$569,412 in ineligible expenses remained outstanding, with 71 per cent (US$403,146) overdue by more than two years. Despite multiple follow-up efforts by the Country Office, the delays persist due to disputes raised by some implementing partners. Notably, 37 per cent of the total amount (US$208,667) relates to a single government implementing partner that has contested the finding and requested a re-verification two years after the initial spot check. While the Country Office agreed to this request, the audit team considers this unreasonable, as it may set a precedent for others and increase the risk of fraud.  Implementing partners’ capacity building: The HACT framework requires country offices to organize capacity-building activities when implementing partners exhibit significant weaknesses in internal controls and programme implementation. Training should be provided to key staff from implementing partners’ organizations who receive and manage cash transfers. The Country Office officials acknowledged the weak governance environment and that many implementing partners have inadequate internal control systems, as reflected in the preceding audit observations. Although one HACT training session was provided in 2025, the auditors could not verify whether all focal points from implementing partners were trained. Moreover, during the partners’ visit, a finance officer from a government implementing partner reported that training was limited to headquarters staff in Brazzaville, while most finance personnel handling UNICEF funds are based in regional and sub-regional offices. This raises concerns about the overall effectiveness and reach of the HACT training provided.  Root cause(s): The audit team attributed the above gaps to i) misalignment between eTools and inSight; ii) insufficient orientation to auditors before and during spot checks

22  and audits; iii) insufficient training of implementing partners, which exposes the Country Office to additional risks, including the potential for errors, fraud and inaccurate reporting, which can also impact programme implementation; and iv) weak reconciliation and follow-up of ineligible expenses.  AGREED ACTIONS 5  The Country Office has agreed to:  i.   Strengthen oversight of financial assurance activities by ensuring that all  recommendations are systematically reviewed, documented in eTools and  followed up in a timely manner; and ensure outstanding ineligible expenses are  reconciled and recovered to mitigate financial risk and reinforce accountability.  ii.   Provide orientation to auditors before and during the conduct of spot checks and  audits.  iii.   Conduct a HACT training for all staff of implementing partners directly involved  in the management of UNICEF cash; develop a mechanism to document and  track training provided.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representatives programmes, HACT officer  Implementation Date: 30 June 2026  6. Programme management   Medium Although system strengthening was identified as a key programme output due to the low national capacities for programme implementation, the auditors found that approximately 75 per cent of the funds transferred to government implementing partners during the period of audit were used for allowances and operational expenses, costs that could be the responsibility of the government for more efficiency. This level of spending may be unsustainable and risks setting a precedent. Furthermore, the Country Office did not manage its grants effectively or transfer resources to implementing partners in a timely manner, resulting in several grants either expiring or approaching expiration with unutilized balances.  Country Office programme structure: The 2020–2026 Country Programme Document outlined two programme outcomes and several outputs, with corresponding indicators primarily focused on service delivery. The audit team noted that both the CPD and associated work plans emphasized service delivery, with limited focus on advocacy and policy influence, or partnerships related to corporate social responsibility efforts by the private sector in support of children’s rights.  Although system strengthening was included as a programme output in the CPD and approved work plans, the audit found that approximately 75% of the cash transferred to government implementing partners during the audited period was spent on DSAs,

23  transport allowances, workshops and staff allowances. While such expenditures may support operational needs, this level of spending appears excessive and unsustainable for a smaller country office like Congo. The Country Office explained that it is responding to the government's request for capacity building; however, no analysis has been conducted to identify the actual human resource needs within government ministries and agencies. Such spending risks setting a precedent. For example, during the audit team’s field visits to two government implementing partners, there was a clear expectation that UNICEF would finance basic services typically under the government’s responsibility.  In response to recent organizational changes and budget constraints, the Country Office indicated in its programme budget review submission that it would shift its focus towards policy and strategic analysis, advocacy for children’s rights, and strengthening partnerships with the public and private sectors. At the time of the audit fieldwork, however, this strategic shift was still under discussion with government ministries.  Transfer of resources to implementing partners: According to the UNICEF Programme Implementation Handbook, country offices are required to transfer resources to implementing partners in a timely manner to ensure effective programme delivery. However, the audit team found that the Country Office did not consistently meet this requirement. For example, school supplies intended for the “Back to School” campaign were distributed more than four months after the school year had begun. Additionally, approximately 16 per cent of supplies (valued at US$318,893) were transferred to implementing partners over 100 days after they arrived at the Country Office warehouse. As of 30 September 2025, 41 per cent of supplies (US$129,000), designated for school supplies and Cholera emergency response, stored between three and six months, remained in the warehouse. Such delays in the transfer of resources can hinder programme implementation and increase the risk of waste and misuse. Furthermore, about 57 per cent of supplies stored at the warehouse (valued at US$287,576) as of 30 September 30, 2025, were linked to expired grants.  Management of grants: Despite the challenging global climate for donor representation and funding, the audit team noted that for existing funding, the Country Office did not adequately plan and implement activities within the grant validity period, resulting in some of the grants expiring before programme activities were completed. For example, as of 30 September, 21 grants had expired, with an unused budget of US$69,762. The auditors also identified 11 grants with an unused balance of US$483,787 that were set to expire in December 2025. Although the Country Office provided the audit team with utilization plans for these grants, the auditors were unable to align the planned activities with the corresponding annual work plans. The audit team was concerned about the feasibility of implementing these activities before the grants’ expiry dates.

24  Furthermore, the audit team noted that as of 30 September 2025, there were open commitments 3   totalling US$2.2 million that were associated with grants that had expired or were expiring within three months, as per the following table:  The Country Office explained that some of the items are pending final deliverables or reports from implementing partners. Follow-ups have been initiated to expedite closure. However, the audit noted that about US$314,951 of these open commitments are aged more than six months. The Country Office explained to the auditors that the financial closure of these grants will occur in 2026 and that all payments related to these commitments will be completed before the financial closure dates.  Root cause(s):   The gaps identified are partly attributed to i) a lack of alignment between expenditures and Country Office priorities, ii) delays in transferring resources to implementing partners, and iii) insufficient oversight of grant utilization due to vacancies in the representative and deputy representative programmes positions for over 10 months.  At the time of the audit fieldwork, the Country Office’s new leadership had undertaken several initiatives to improve grant management, transfer of resources and programme implementation. The Country Office also plans to conduct additional training to strengthen implementing partners’ capacity to manage the resources transferred to them.  AGREED ACTIONS 6  The Country Office has agreed to:  i.   Redefine its priorities as part of the preparation of the new Country Programme  Document and ensure that financial resources are directed towards sustainable  capacity building and institutional reforms.  ii.   Strengthen budget planning and monitoring to ensure that resources are  transferred to implementing partners on time and funds are used within the  grant validity period.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representative programmes, representative  Implementation Date: 30 June 2026  3   Open commitments are amounts committed by UNICEF but not yet spent at a given point in time.  Row Labels   Amount in USD   Percentage  Expired   -1,589,764.58   72.61% Expiring in 3 months   -599,669.03   27.39%  Grand Total   -2,189,433.61   100.00%  Open commitments on expired and expiring grants

25  7 . Procurement   of   services   High The Country Office’s vendor selection and contract award processes lacked transparency, were insufficiently documented and failed to provide value for money for UNICEF. Combined with insufficient oversight of car rentals, these weaknesses significantly increased the risk of fraud. Additionally, grant management was ineffective, with approximately 24.5 per cent of purchase orders issued within 90 days of grant expiration, raising concerns about timely implementation of programme activities and fund utilization.  Between January 2024 and September 2025, the Country Office established 228 contracts with a total value of US$3.9 million for the procurement of various services. Of these, 98 per cent were below the Contract Review Committee threshold and therefore were not subject to the committee’s review. The audit team assessed whether adequate controls were in place for awarding these contracts – specifically, whether the Country Office had measures to effectively manage fraud risks related to vendor selection, receipt of services and payment certification. The following observations were noted:  Due diligence and selection of service vendors: According to UNICEF procurement principles, vendor selection must be transparent, provide the best value for money to UNICEF, and be fair to all bidders. This is typically achieved through competitive selection processes, or, where competitive selection is not used, adequate documentation of the rationale for the decision must be maintained. The audit team noted that the Country Office’s vendor selection and contract award processes lacked transparency and were insufficiently documented. For example, in 14 out of 24 cases reviewed by the audit team, vendors who had passed the technical evaluations and offered the lowest cost were not selected. The Country Office explained that offers with unrealistic prices were excluded. However, at the time of the audit fieldwork, no market assessment had been conducted to evaluate the market potential or establish average prices for goods and services. In another instance, a contract was awarded based on a programme section’s recommendation rather than cost efficiency. Additionally, the audit team noted that two identical bids were submitted under different companies, an indication of potential collusion. Despite this, the Country Office proceeded to award a contract to one of the companies without any investigation.  Awarding contracts under these circumstances, particularly in the presence of identical bids and inadequate justification for vendor selection, exposes the Country Office to an increased risk of fraud.  Service delivery and payment of service vendors: Between January 2024 and September 2025, the Country Office spent approximately US$150,000 on vehicle rentals, despite owning a fleet of vehicles. The Country Office explained that the rented vehicles were primarily used by consultants. However, the audit team found this expenditure to be

26  unreasonable in relation to the number of consultants engaged during the period and the number of cars owned by the office. Furthermore, no logbooks were maintained by the Country Office for the hired vehicles, limiting oversight and accountability for their use. Although the Country Office stated that car rental companies are responsible for maintaining usage logs, the absence of internal records creates a high risk that the Country Office may be charged for vehicles or rental days that were not actually used.  Purchase orders towards the grant expiration period: The audit team found that approximately 24.5 per cent (US$1.2 million) of purchase orders were placed less than 90 days before the grant expiration. Five contracts totalling US$760,726, mostly for medical supplies and transportation, were placed less than 30 days before grant expiration. This poses a significant risk that the Country Office will not receive the goods and services before the grants expire.  Root cause(s): The audit team attributed the gaps above to i) insufficient oversight over vendor selection and ii) lack of adherence to UNICEF procurement principles and procedures.  AGREED ACTIONS 7  The Country Office has agreed to:  i.   Strengthen oversight of procurement and contract management by ensuring  that vendor selection and contract award processes are transparent, provide  value for money to UNICEF and are fully and properly documented.  i.   Ensure that purchase orders are raised and goods and services received within  the grant validity periods.  ii.   Enhance controls over service delivery by maintaining internal tracking  documentation for all rented vehicles to improve accountability and reduce the  risk of misuse or overbilling.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representative operations, supply specialist  Implementation Date: 31 March 2026  8. Warehouse management   Medium The Country Office did not consistently update its inventory records or obtain acknowledgements on supplies transferred to implementing partners, which increases the risk of fraud and misappropriation of supplies.  During the period from January 2024 through September 2025, the Country Office transferred supplies worth US$3.5 million, including US$1.9 million from Country Office warehouses and US$1.6 million directly from vendors to implementing partners. The audit

27  team assessed the controls surrounding the transfer of those supplies, warehousing and supply monitoring as follows:  Warehouse management and distribution of supplies: According to UNICEF’s Procedure on Warehouse and Inventory Management, country offices are required to maintain adequate warehouse and inventory controls to ensure timely updates of supply receipts and distributions in both warehouse records and the inventory system. Supplies transferred to implementing partners must also be formally acknowledged upon receipt.  However, the audit team noted that inventory records in VISION 4   were not consistently updated to reflect the actual movement of stock. For example, 100 bags issued to the Country Office’s Communications Unit were not recorded in the system.  The audit team also found that supplies transferred to implementing partners were not systematically acknowledged. For instance, an implementing partner did not acknowledge receipt of five cartons of school supplies listed on a waybill, yet the Country Office did not investigate or take corrective action.  Failure to timely update the inventory system and to obtain acknowledgements for supplies transferred to implementing partners exposes the Country Office to increased risks of fraud, misappropriation and loss of accountability.  Root cause(s): The gaps noted above are mainly due to weak inventory and warehouse control systems combined with insufficient oversight over supplies transferred to implementing partners.  AGREED ACTIONS 8  The Congo Country Office has agreed to strengthen its warehouse and inventory  management processes by ensuring that all inventory movements are promptly recorded  in the inventory system and that supplies transferred to implementing partners are  systematically acknowledged upon receipt.  Staff Responsible: Deputy representative operations, supply specialist  Implementation Date: 31 March 2026  4   UNICEF manages most of its business operations through VISION. The software is a specifically customized version of SAP – a recognized enterprise resource planning and management software.

28  Definition s   of Audit   Observation   Ratings  To assist management in prioritizing the actions arising from the audit, OIAI ascribes a rating to each audit observation based on the potential consequence or residual risks to the audited entity, area, activity or process or to UNICEF as a whole. Individual observations are rated as follows:  Low  The observation concerns a potential opportunity for improvement in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes. Low- priority observations are reported to management during the audit but are not included in the audit report. Action in response to the observation is desirable.  Medium  The observation relates to a weakness or deficiency in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires resolution within a reasonable period to avoid adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process.  High  The observation concerns a fundamental weakness or deficiency in the assessed governance, risk management or control processes that requires prompt/immediate resolution to avoid severe/major adverse consequences for the audited entity, area, activity or process, or for UNICEF as a whole.  Definitions of Overall Audit Conclusions  The above ratings of audit observations are then used to support an overall audit conclusion for the area under review, as follows:  Satisfactory   The assessed governance, risk management, and control processes were adequate and functioning well.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, and control processes were generally adequate and functioning but needed improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified were unlikely to have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Partially  Satisfactory,  Major  Improvement  Needed  The assessed governance, risk management, or control processes needed major improvement. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a materially negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  Unsatisfactory  The assessed governance, risk management or control processes were not adequately established or did not function well. The weaknesses or deficiencies identified could have a severely negative impact on the performance of the audited entity, area, activity or process.  A PPENDIX

29  Published by UNICEF Office of Internal Audit and Investigations (OIAI)  3 United Nations Plaza, East 44th St, New York, NY 10017  www.unicef.org/auditandinvestigation  Report No. 2025 /25  © United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), [ February, 2026]